Thanks to Adrian Gropper for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-05-12/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2020-05-12

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020May/0067.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions & Reintroductions
  2. Announcements & Reminders
  3. Progress on Action Items
  4. Glossary Effort - Kaliya, Margo, and Drummond
  5. New Charter Approval and Next Steps
  6. Election of chairs
Action Items:
  1. Add SDS calls to announcement
  2. chairs track charter comments 
    https://docs.google.com/document/d/10vsEEzy901C7XOpqziqOUaKL_uo41_hV0lJkOYEuLI8/edit
Organizer:
  Christopher Allen and Joe Andrieu and Kim Hamilton Duffy
Scribe:
  Adrian Gropper
Present:
  Orie Steele, Kim Hamilton Duffy, Adrian Gropper, Kaliya Young, 
  Drummond Reed, Nate Otto, Christopher Allen, Yancy Ribbens, Amy 
  Guy, Gabe Cohen, Dan Burnett, Dmitri Zagidulin, Taylor Kendall, 
  Anil John, Chris Winczewski, Margo Johnson, Robbie Jones, Erica 
  Connell, Joe Andrieu, Ryan Grant, Jeff Orgel, Jonathan Holt, Juan 
  Caballero, Wayne Vaughn, Adrian Hope-Bailie, Joe Kaplan
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-05-12/audio.ogg

Drummond Reed: Note that I can only stay through the first half 
  of today's call.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
Yancy Ribbens: Preset+
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
Robbie Jones: Per request just now: javaservlets = robbie jones, 
  ForgeRock.com
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
Adrian Gropper is scribing.

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

Faceface, please introduce yourself
Anil John:  Tech director of DHS technology innvation program -
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Great to have Anil involved
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Sure :)
Kaliya Young:  Working on user-centric ID for 15 years and 
  co-founder IIW. Independent research + community ledership time - 
  really excited about where we are - started blog pod to bring 
  blogging back - wery important way to communicate
  ... my book is coming out in the next weeks: Don=mains of 
  Identity
Drummond Reed: Congrats on the book!

Topic: Announcements & Reminders

Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
Kim Hamilton Duffy: http://www.cvent.com/d/fhqnf3/4W
June 8-11 Identiverse
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-ed/blob/gh-pages/README.md
Verifiable Credentials for Education - Mondays 11 ET - working to 
  deploy in a domain where a lot of progress - Yesterday talk about 
  Europass - mapped to XML in order to fit with legal requirements
  ... We have DID Resolution cals on Thursdays 4 PM EST
Dan Burnett: And people laughed at me when my first revamp of the 
  VC spec (pre-WG) included XML as a data representation . . .

ACTION: Add SDS calls to announcement

Kaliya Young:  SDS announcements should be here as well

Topic: Progress on Action Items

Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
Kaliya Young: That link to Identiverse doesn't work
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  We use Github tags - will start with #115 
  and #116 - repos transferred adopted and ready to move forward.
Closing...
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/105
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/ldp-bbs2020
Jonathan Holt:  Comparing BBS+ to Ursa - scribe needs help
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/105
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Orie has taken the lead in moving over to 
  CCG. Thank you Orie foa all of that work
  ... notifying that we should all check out that all repos have 
  been moved, please
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://github.com/w3c-dvcg/
  ... ReadMe updated - added some notes to each of the repos -
.. If no objections the chairs will close as next steps
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/117
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Announcing official adoption #117 VP request 
  spec for CHAPI - mulling a bit longer - ready to adopt this as 
  work item -
  ... Accepted
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/94
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Danb: have not had a chance to work on that 
  with Manu

Topic: Glossary Effort - Kaliya, Margo, and Drummond

Kaliya Young: Here is the glossary link 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1gIEPmbtLNVuaHxdawGBe6ZwFqP43m7iqmIEeUUm3sjI/edit#slide=id.g752184a474_0_4
Kaliya Young: 
  http://eekim.com/2006/06/developing-shared-language/
Glossary effort by Kaliya, Drummond and Margo...
Kaliya Young: http://wiki.idcommons.net/Lexicon
Kaliya Young:  At IIW29 a group emerged to work on glossar effort 
  - reduce marketing confusion - to be one levelup from technical - 
  for product managers
  ... inspired to develop shared language - converge on shared 
  understanding -
  ... innovated our own approach - to understand how words are 
  currently used and then support emergent
  ... slide 3: has SSI, Wallet, Agent, Credential
Margo Johnson:  Went through survey results and map into nodes 
  and edges - Slide 6
  ... As a group too 27 different responses from companies and 
  individuals (Slide 7)
  ... ove months, raw results used inductive research process 
  (Slide 9) created categories of each of the common themens
  ... able to rank their importance in terms of (Slide 10)
  ... Agent had a great diversity (Slide 11)
Kim Hamilton Duffy: This is great work!
  ... Credentials... Structure  Wallet.. controlled by agent 
  Agent... difficult - software representative of subject
  ... More interesting were edges - (Slide 12)
  ... Agents may have wallets , agents support delegation...
Outliers... Drummond: Surprising range of responses - clear that 
  there is a lot of variance across the community especially since 
  some don't use the term agent at all. Others were not using 
  Wallet in a normal way
  ... overall however there was a lot of commonality - look 
  through the process - becausae there's a lot of information about 
  our community
Kaliya Young:  The group is looking at what to do next. Three 
  more terms? Group meets at 2PM PT Mondays.
  ... need additional / new co-chairs. Please join in.
Juan Caballero: I think the next three terms should be "trust", 
  "privacy", and "control" <ducks>
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  This is valuable work. Seeing the structure 
  is fantastic. Are you going to publish the methodology?
Drummond Reed: Juan, you just nominated yourself as a new chair!!
Juan Caballero: <Ducking intensifies>
Kaliya Young:  We should probably do a formal post
Drummond Reed: Thanks to Kaliya and Margo for their extensive 
  work and leadership on this project.
Juan Caballero: +1
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Curious for commentary on avoiding SSI.
Dan Burnett: Kaliya, I am interested in participating
Kaliya Young:  If people want to tackle SSI join the group
Juan Caballero: Lol to kim
Christopher Allen: 
  https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/self-sovereign-identity/issues/13
Kaliya Young: Here is a link to the group - 
  https://dif.groups.io/g/glossary
Orie Steele: SSI ~= Principality_of_Sealand
Juan Caballero: I am 100% not chairing it if the word "sovereign" 
  is defined, much less SSI !
Kaliya Young: Here is the form to get invite to the meeting - 
  https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeJDqcE1hgmx60zISm4uvJdWPuJhji3Y9fJeXCIENMHr-JB7A/viewform
Kaliya Young: Here are our ongoing meeting notes. 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NCzsq7hrHipPN2vmjlWLYwp-8zkAOeEaw4sn15KAtQA/edit#heading=h.lqd5fggl442g
Christopher Allen:  Defining SSI is hard - work on portability - 
  maybe a 2020 version of the principles
Drummond Reed: Ironically, "SSI" was the #1 choice of the survey 
  respondents of the terms they wanted to see defined. The chairs 
  decided it was too big a mountain to try climb in the first 
  go-round.
Orie Steele: ... Because there is no standards org working on a 
  wallet specification
Kim Hamilton Duffy: +1 To Juan, any terms that sound like a 
  militia group is best to avoid.
  ... to wallet discussion: 2 areas not addressed parallel crypto 
  community - accounts in a wallet - waht is the equivalent in the 
  credential world
Juan Caballero: Don't tread on me, Kim! Liberate SSI!
  ... also the addional problem of personas - want to segregate 
  them from accounts in a wallet
Drummond Reed: Unfortunately I must leave the call early. Looking 
  forward to progressing the glossary.
Juan Caballero: I've always wondered why the term 
  persona/personae doesn't circulate more...
  ... how do those things map to credential wallets - to get to a 
  joint wallet
Drummond Reed: +1 To Christopher's points that "wallet" should be 
  able to cover both credentials and currency.
Orie Steele: +1 To ChristopherA... wallets should hold both money 
  and credentials... or be called something else :)
Anil John: To prevent the re-invention of the wheel -- Has the 
  work that Darrell O'Donnel has done around Wallets been 
  incorporated into the wallet discussion?
Anil John: 
  https://ssimeetup.org/state-digital-identity-crypto-wallets-darrell-odonnell-webinar-22/
Drummond Reed: Must drop now, thanks
Wayne Vaughn:  Wallet parallel to crypto - very open to 
  supporting credentails - could be an adoption path - another pont 
  is around HD wallets that reduce correlation risk - needs 
  exploration
Orie Steele: Anil_John excellent link.
Christopher Allen: +1 I'm trying to have our iOS bitcoin wallet 
  FullyNoded2 support both cryptocurrency & DIDs.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Darrell also had a survey of wallets in 
  report form -- I'm sure that webinar refers to it
Anil John: Yup.. There is link from the webinar link I provided 
  above
Juan Caballero: Agropper - triad of request properties: 
  scope,requester, and purpose ; I want to see some standardization 
  around these (regardless of whether requests persist as 
  credentials)
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://www.continuumloop.com/get-digital-wallet-report
Juan Caballero: Meeting time?
Adrian Hope-Bailie:  Mentioned the request triplet voabulary 
  issue
Juan Caballero: 2Pm PST mondays?

Topic: New Charter Approval and Next Steps

Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/10vsEEzy901C7XOpqziqOUaKL_uo41_hV0lJkOYEuLI8/edit?usp=sharing
Kaliya Young: Meetings are 2-3pm pacific on Monday
Kaliya Young: Next one is next week.
Kaliya Young: Here is the link to get a calendar invite 
  https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeJDqcE1hgmx60zISm4uvJdWPuJhji3Y9fJeXCIENMHr-JB7A/viewform
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Discussed April 9 email: 53 responses all 
  approve . no disapprove - two comments - no time to discuss now
Joe Andrieu: +1 For mentioning the comments.
Kaliya Young: Here is the home page - 
  https://dif.groups.io/g/glossary
Christopher Allen: +1 Schedule future meeting on comments (but 
  maybe after election)
  ... Propose that chairs track the 2 comments as action items

ACTION: chairs track charter comments 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/10vsEEzy901C7XOpqziqOUaKL_uo41_hV0lJkOYEuLI8/edit

Topic: Election of chairs

Joe Andrieu:  Best reference is language in the charter itself:
Joe Andrieu: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_7noTaKsqN-TBR7VgECpy-H-zS05rNds81GyRw95jE/edit?usp=sharing
Christopher Allen: Date set - two week nomination - two week 
  election if needed
The way this works - two week nomination then two weeks election 
  - depends on how many nominations - announcing election today
  ... June 9 formal announcement on behalf of the chairs - self 
  nomination please - who you are and why
  ... 3 seats available ... in this election ... A 1 year, B 2 
  years, C is for 3 years.
Christopher Allen:  This is the last election with all three 
  chairs - hope for new blood - encourage everyone to look into 
  these - we meet each week online for one hour -
  ... rotate in running the meetings - Kim did an amazing job 
  last year - now automated by Kim - so we now manage using Github 
  issues
  ... Who will join Kim and Joe who are running for re-election
Joe Kaplan:  One of these meetings will be a"town call" to ask 
  and respond in two weeks
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Want to allay concerns, 3 year commitment is 
  not strict, for my part, we need to bring in new leadership to 
  drive a broader range of efforts
  ... a lot of the time spent on mechanics now allows more time 
  for planning and vision,
  ... these seats are not pre-destined to be Joe's and mine so 
  please run.
  ... if you have questions we can tell you more - reach out to 
  us via email - and Kim will set up the call.
Please nominate yourself
