[2020-05-12T16:00:27.900Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:00:51.737Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:00:52.812Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020May/0067.html
[2020-05-12T16:01:09.741Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:01:48.440Z]	<identitywoman__>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:02:26.728Z]	<drummond_>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:02:49.889Z]	<drummond_>	Note that I can only stay through the first half of today's call.
[2020-05-12T16:03:03.480Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-05-12T16:03:07.319Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:03:10.344Z]	<ChristopherA>	Present+
[2020-05-12T16:03:12.919Z]	<yancy>	preset+
[2020-05-12T16:03:13.840Z]	<rhiaro>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:03:14.307Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-05-12T16:03:15.190Z]	<gabec>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:03:16.999Z]	<burn>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:03:21.060Z]	<yancy>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:03:24.090Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-05-12T16:03:27.680Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:03:42.514Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-05-12T16:04:14.561Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:04:29.539Z]	<tayken>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:04:31.288Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:04:38.502Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:04:46.620Z]	<kimhd>	voip: noise?
[2020-05-12T16:04:49.206Z]	<javaservlets>	per request just now: javaservlets = robbie jones, ForgeRock.com
[2020-05-12T16:05:01.064Z]	<kimhd>	q+ to mention something
[2020-05-12T16:05:07.873Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-05-12T16:05:21.772Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:05:33.695Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:05:42.789Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-05-12T16:05:57.213Z]	<kimhd>	voip: noise?
[2020-05-12T16:06:44.363Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:08:52.129Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: agropper
[2020-05-12T16:09:45.492Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2020-05-12T16:09:51.421Z]	<agropper>	Topic: Introductions
[2020-05-12T16:10:06.985Z]	<joel_>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:10:39.955Z]	<agropper>	faceface, please introduce yourself
[2020-05-12T16:10:47.942Z]	<Tom_S__-_USAA>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:11:18.689Z]	<agropper>	Anil_John: Tech director of DHS technology innvation program -
[2020-05-12T16:11:28.796Z]	<JeffO-StL>	Present+
[2020-05-12T16:11:41.482Z]	<agropper>	kimhd: great to have Anil involved
[2020-05-12T16:12:43.495Z]	<jonathan_holt>	present+ jonathan_holt
[2020-05-12T16:13:50.903Z]	<kimhd>	sure :)
[2020-05-12T16:13:59.628Z]	<agropper>	Kaliya: Working on user-centric ID for 15 years and co-founder IIW. Independent research + community ledership time - really excited about where we are - started blog pod to bring blogging back - wery important way to communicate
[2020-05-12T16:14:24.226Z]	<agropper>	... my book is coming out in the next weeks: Don=mains of Identity
[2020-05-12T16:14:28.071Z]	<drummond_>	Congrats on the book!
[2020-05-12T16:14:45.993Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2020-05-12T16:14:47.866Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-05-12T16:15:04.922Z]	<kimhd>	http://www.cvent.com/d/fhqnf3/4W
[2020-05-12T16:15:13.269Z]	<agropper>	June 8-11 Identiverse
[2020-05-12T16:15:33.301Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-ed/blob/gh-pages/README.md
[2020-05-12T16:16:36.555Z]	<agropper>	Verifiable Credentials for Education - Mondays 11 ET - working to deploy in a domain where a lot of progress - Yesterday talk about Europass - mapped to XML in order to fit with legal requirements
[2020-05-12T16:16:56.063Z]	<agropper>	... We have DID Resolution cals on Thursdays 4 PM EST
[2020-05-12T16:16:56.132Z]	<burn>	And people laughed at me when my first revamp of the VC spec (pre-WG) included XML as a data representation . . .
[2020-05-12T16:17:25.363Z]	<kimhd>	Action: Add SDS calls to announcement
[2020-05-12T16:17:26.382Z]	<agropper>	Kaliya: SDS announcements should be here as well
[2020-05-12T16:17:46.855Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Progress on Action Items
[2020-05-12T16:17:53.648Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-05-12T16:18:18.591Z]	<identitywoman__>	that link to Identiverse doesn't work
[2020-05-12T16:18:37.545Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q+
[2020-05-12T16:18:42.914Z]	<agropper>	kimhd: we use Github tags - will start with #115 and #116 - repos transferred adopted and ready to move forward.
[2020-05-12T16:18:52.282Z]	<agropper>	Closing...
[2020-05-12T16:19:08.721Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/105
[2020-05-12T16:19:24.053Z]	<kimhd>	ack jonathan_holt
[2020-05-12T16:20:41.593Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/ldp-bbs2020
[2020-05-12T16:20:57.111Z]	<agropper>	jonathan: Comparing DBS ??? to Ursa - scribe needs help
[2020-05-12T16:21:01.467Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/105
[2020-05-12T16:21:01.613Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:21:21.202Z]	<burn>	s/DBS ???/BBS+/
[2020-05-12T16:21:41.510Z]	<agropper>	kimhd: Orie has taken the lead in moving over to CCG. Thank you Orie foa all of that work
[2020-05-12T16:22:07.742Z]	<agropper>	... notifying that we should all check out that all repos have been moved, please
[2020-05-12T16:22:14.727Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-dvcg/
[2020-05-12T16:22:56.915Z]	<agropper>	... ReadMe updated - added some notes to each of the repos -
[2020-05-12T16:23:09.586Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-05-12T16:23:27.521Z]	<agropper>	.. if no objections the chairs will close as next steps
[2020-05-12T16:23:52.683Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/117
[2020-05-12T16:24:42.374Z]	<agropper>	kimhd: Announcing official adoption #117 VP request spec for CHAPI - mulling a bit longer - ready to adopt this as work item -
[2020-05-12T16:24:51.142Z]	<agropper>	... Accepted
[2020-05-12T16:25:14.502Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/94
[2020-05-12T16:25:34.812Z]	<agropper>	kimhd: danb: have not had a chance to work on that with Manu
[2020-05-12T16:26:01.800Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Glossary Effort - Kaliya, Margo, and Drummond
[2020-05-12T16:26:06.247Z]	<identitywoman__>	Here is the glossary link https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1gIEPmbtLNVuaHxdawGBe6ZwFqP43m7iqmIEeUUm3sjI/edit#slide=id.g752184a474_0_4
[2020-05-12T16:26:13.481Z]	<identitywoman__>	http://eekim.com/2006/06/developing-shared-language/
[2020-05-12T16:26:16.461Z]	<agropper>	Glossary effort by Kaliya, Drummond and Margo...
[2020-05-12T16:26:18.853Z]	<identitywoman__>	http://wiki.idcommons.net/Lexicon
[2020-05-12T16:27:25.809Z]	<agropper>	Kaliya: At IIW29 a group emerged to work on glossar effort - reduce marketing confusion - to be one levelup from technical - for product managers
[2020-05-12T16:28:01.644Z]	<agropper>	... inspired to develop shared language - converge on shared understanding -
[2020-05-12T16:28:54.461Z]	<agropper>	... innovated our own approach - to understand how words are currently used and then support emergent
[2020-05-12T16:29:40.209Z]	<agropper>	... slide 3: has SSI, Wallet, Agent, Credential
[2020-05-12T16:30:25.730Z]	<agropper>	margo: Went through survey results and map into nodes and edges - Slide 6
[2020-05-12T16:30:56.485Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-05-12T16:30:59.284Z]	<agropper>	... As a group too 27 different responses from companies and individuals (Slide 7)
[2020-05-12T16:31:42.181Z]	<agropper>	... ove months, raw results used inductive research process (Slide 9) created categories of each of the common themens
[2020-05-12T16:32:24.967Z]	<agropper>	... able to rank their importance in terms of (Slide 10)
[2020-05-12T16:32:51.234Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-05-12T16:33:00.947Z]	<agropper>	... Agent had a great diversity (Slide 11)
[2020-05-12T16:33:54.572Z]	<kimhd>	this is great work!
[2020-05-12T16:34:11.683Z]	<agropper>	... Credentials... Structure  Wallet.. controlled by agent Agent... difficult - software representative of subject
[2020-05-12T16:35:08.889Z]	<agropper>	... More interesting were edges - (Slide 12)
[2020-05-12T16:35:39.620Z]	<agropper>	... Agents may have wallets , agents support delegation...
[2020-05-12T16:37:18.542Z]	<agropper>	Outliers... Drummond: Surprising range of responses - clear that there is a lot of variance across the community especially since some don't use the term agent at all. Others were not using Wallet in a normal way
[2020-05-12T16:37:52.982Z]	<agropper>	... overall however there was a lot of commonality - look through the process - becausae there's a lot of information about our community
[2020-05-12T16:38:50.514Z]	<agropper>	Kaliya: The group is looking at what to do next. Three more terms? Group meets at 2PM PT Mondays.
[2020-05-12T16:38:57.685Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-05-12T16:39:03.831Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-05-12T16:39:04.615Z]	<agropper>	... need additional / new co-chairs. Please join in.
[2020-05-12T16:39:29.122Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-05-12T16:39:34.963Z]	<by_caballero>	i think the next three terms should be "trust", "privacy", and "control" <ducks>
[2020-05-12T16:39:50.821Z]	<agropper>	kimhd: This is valuable work. Seeing the structure is fantastic. Are you going to publish the methodology?
[2020-05-12T16:40:00.620Z]	<drummond_>	Juan, you just nominated yourself as a new chair!!
[2020-05-12T16:40:09.390Z]	<by_caballero>	<ducking intensifies>
[2020-05-12T16:40:11.374Z]	<agropper>	Kaliya: We should probably do a formal post
[2020-05-12T16:40:16.204Z]	<drummond_>	Thanks to Kaliya and Margo for their extensive work and leadership on this project.
[2020-05-12T16:40:23.252Z]	<by_caballero>	+1
[2020-05-12T16:40:38.221Z]	<agropper>	kimhd: Curious for commentary on avoiding SSI.
[2020-05-12T16:40:38.989Z]	<burn>	Kaliya, I am interested in participating
[2020-05-12T16:40:47.754Z]	<drummond_>	q+
[2020-05-12T16:41:00.341Z]	<agropper>	kaliya: If people want to tackle SSI join the group
[2020-05-12T16:41:02.833Z]	<by_caballero>	lol to kim
[2020-05-12T16:41:08.053Z]	<kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-05-12T16:41:24.614Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/self-sovereign-identity/issues/13
[2020-05-12T16:41:29.141Z]	<identitywoman__>	Here is a link to the group - https://dif.groups.io/g/glossary
[2020-05-12T16:41:33.901Z]	<Orie>	SSI ~= Principality_of_Sealand
[2020-05-12T16:41:42.701Z]	<by_caballero>	i am 100% not chairing it if the word "sovereign" is defined, much less SSI !
[2020-05-12T16:41:42.841Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-05-12T16:41:59.046Z]	<identitywoman__>	Here is the form to get invite to the meeting - https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeJDqcE1hgmx60zISm4uvJdWPuJhji3Y9fJeXCIENMHr-JB7A/viewform
[2020-05-12T16:42:10.141Z]	<identitywoman__>	Here are our ongoing meeting notes. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NCzsq7hrHipPN2vmjlWLYwp-8zkAOeEaw4sn15KAtQA/edit#heading=h.lqd5fggl442g
[2020-05-12T16:42:10.506Z]	<agropper>	christopherA: Defining SSI is hard - work on portability - maybe a 2020 version of the principles
[2020-05-12T16:42:17.788Z]	<drummond_>	Ironically, "SSI" was the #1 choice of the survey respondents of the terms they wanted to see defined. The chairs decided it was too big a mountain to try climb in the first go-round.
[2020-05-12T16:42:46.334Z]	<Orie>	... because there is no standards org working on a wallet specification
[2020-05-12T16:42:47.874Z]	<kimhd>	+1 to Juan, any terms that sound like a militia group is best to avoid.
[2020-05-12T16:43:14.809Z]	<wayne>	q+
[2020-05-12T16:43:14.892Z]	<agropper>	... to wallet discussion: 2 areas not addressed parallel crypto community - accounts in a wallet - waht is the equivalent in the credential world
[2020-05-12T16:43:17.635Z]	<by_caballero>	don't tread on me, Kim! Liberate SSI!
[2020-05-12T16:43:22.509Z]	<drummond_>	q-
[2020-05-12T16:43:42.806Z]	<agropper>	... also the addional problem of personas - want to segregate them from accounts in a wallet
[2020-05-12T16:43:45.284Z]	<drummond_>	Unfortunately I must leave the call early. Looking forward to progressing the glossary.
[2020-05-12T16:44:06.801Z]	<by_caballero>	I've always wondered why the term persona/personae doesn't circulate more...
[2020-05-12T16:44:17.626Z]	<agropper>	... how do those things map to credential wallets - to get to a joint wallet
[2020-05-12T16:44:21.754Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2020-05-12T16:44:25.827Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-05-12T16:44:27.711Z]	<drummond_>	+1 to Christopher's points that "wallet" should be able to cover both credentials and currency.
[2020-05-12T16:44:35.401Z]	<Orie>	+1 to ChristopherA... wallets should hold both money and credentials... or be called something else :)
[2020-05-12T16:44:47.447Z]	<kimhd>	ack wayne
[2020-05-12T16:44:52.901Z]	<Anil_John>	To prevent the re-invention of the wheel -- Has the work that Darrell O'Donnel has done around Wallets been incorporated into the wallet discussion?
[2020-05-12T16:44:55.301Z]	<Anil_John>	https://ssimeetup.org/state-digital-identity-crypto-wallets-darrell-odonnell-webinar-22/
[2020-05-12T16:44:56.281Z]	<drummond_>	Must drop now, thanks
[2020-05-12T16:45:58.521Z]	<agropper>	Wayne: wallet parallel to crypto - very open to supporting credentails - could be an adoption path - another pont is around HD wallets that reduce correlation risk - needs exploration
[2020-05-12T16:46:05.548Z]	<kimhd>	ack agropper
[2020-05-12T16:46:08.401Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-05-12T16:46:08.473Z]	<Orie>	Anil_John excellent link.
[2020-05-12T16:46:13.802Z]	<ChristopherA>	+1 I'm trying to have our iOS bitcoin wallet FullyNoded2 support both cryptocurrency & DIDs.
[2020-05-12T16:46:43.261Z]	<kimhd>	Darrell also had a survey of wallets in report form -- I'm sure that webinar refers to it
[2020-05-12T16:47:00.340Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-05-12T16:47:07.551Z]	<Anil_John>	Yup.. There is link from the webinar link I provided above
[2020-05-12T16:47:28.014Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-05-12T16:47:29.841Z]	<by_caballero>	agropper - triad of request properties: scope,requester, and purpose ; I want to see some standardization around these (regardless of whether requests persist as credentials)
[2020-05-12T16:47:40.394Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.continuumloop.com/get-digital-wallet-report
[2020-05-12T16:47:57.491Z]	<by_caballero>	meeting time?
[2020-05-12T16:48:04.267Z]	<agropper>	adrian: mentioned the request triplet voabulary issue
[2020-05-12T16:48:06.401Z]	<by_caballero>	2pm PST mondays?
[2020-05-12T16:48:27.261Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: New Charter Approval and Next Steps
[2020-05-12T16:48:35.111Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/10vsEEzy901C7XOpqziqOUaKL_uo41_hV0lJkOYEuLI8/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-05-12T16:48:42.423Z]	<agropper>	Topic: New cahrter approval and next steps
[2020-05-12T16:48:49.901Z]	<identitywoman__>	Meetings are 2-3pm pacific on Monday
[2020-05-12T16:48:54.690Z]	<identitywoman__>	next one is next week.
[2020-05-12T16:49:24.323Z]	<identitywoman__>	Here is the link to get a calendar invite https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeJDqcE1hgmx60zISm4uvJdWPuJhji3Y9fJeXCIENMHr-JB7A/viewform
[2020-05-12T16:49:27.940Z]	<agropper>	kimhd: discussed April 9 email: 53 responses all approve . no disapprove - two comments - no time to discuss now
[2020-05-12T16:49:29.861Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	+1 for mentioning the comments.
[2020-05-12T16:49:35.881Z]	<identitywoman__>	Here is the home page - https://dif.groups.io/g/glossary
[2020-05-12T16:49:49.001Z]	<ChristopherA>	+1 schedule future meeting on comments (but maybe after election)
[2020-05-12T16:49:53.013Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-05-12T16:49:55.601Z]	<agropper>	... Propose that chairs track the 2 comments as action items
[2020-05-12T16:50:14.381Z]	<kimhd>	Action: chairs track charter comments https://docs.google.com/document/d/10vsEEzy901C7XOpqziqOUaKL_uo41_hV0lJkOYEuLI8/edit
[2020-05-12T16:50:30.173Z]	<agropper>	Topic Chair Election:
[2020-05-12T16:50:38.390Z]	<ChristopherA>	topic: chair election
[2020-05-12T16:50:43.411Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Election of chairs
[2020-05-12T16:51:17.140Z]	<agropper>	JoeAndrieu: Best reference is language in the charter itself:
[2020-05-12T16:51:19.402Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_7noTaKsqN-TBR7VgECpy-H-zS05rNds81GyRw95jE/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-05-12T16:51:56.800Z]	<ChristopherA>	date set - two week nomination - two week election if needed
[2020-05-12T16:52:12.482Z]	<agropper>	The way this works - two week nomination then two weeks election - depends on how many nominations - announcing election today
[2020-05-12T16:52:55.240Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-05-12T16:52:55.596Z]	<agropper>	... June 9 formal announcement on behalf of the chairs - self nomination please - who you are and why
[2020-05-12T16:53:38.080Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-05-12T16:53:41.603Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-05-12T16:53:44.440Z]	<agropper>	... 3 seats available ... in this election ... A 1 year, B 2 years, C is for 3 years.
[2020-05-12T16:53:49.167Z]	<kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-05-12T16:55:00.270Z]	<agropper>	christopherA: This is the last election with all three chairs - hope for new blood - encourage everyone to look into these - we meet each week online for one hour -
[2020-05-12T16:56:03.220Z]	<agropper>	... rotate in running the meetings - Kim did an amazing job last year - now automated by Kim - so we now manage using Github issues
[2020-05-12T16:56:32.260Z]	<agropper>	... Who will join Kim and Joe who are running for re-election
[2020-05-12T16:57:06.040Z]	<agropper>	Joe: One of these meetings will be a"town call" to ask and respond in two weeks
[2020-05-12T16:58:13.768Z]	<agropper>	kimhd: Want to allay concerns, 3 year commitment is not strict, for my part, we need to bring in new leadership to drive a broader range of efforts
[2020-05-12T16:58:40.504Z]	<agropper>	... a lot of the time spent on mechanics now allows more time for planning and vision,
[2020-05-12T16:59:06.971Z]	<agropper>	... these seats are not pre-destined to be Joe's and mine so please run.
[2020-05-12T16:59:43.355Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-05-12T16:59:47.201Z]	<agropper>	... if you have questions we can tell you more - reach out to us via email - and Kim will set up the call.
[2020-05-12T16:59:49.268Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-05-12T17:00:05.669Z]	<agropper>	Please nominate yourself
[2020-05-12T18:12:40.761Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: connections?
[2020-05-12T18:12:50.399Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: disconnect d14
