Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and russell_h_(mesur.io) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-02-20-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-02-20-traceability/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-02-20.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2024-02-20

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Feb&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and russell_h_(mesur.io)
Present:
  Guilherme, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Russell H (mesur.io), TallTed // 
  Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Patrick St-Louis, Chris 
  Abernethy, Nis Jespersen , Ted Thibodeau

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): Yeah I can scrape.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Awesome thank you Russell.
russell_h_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/923
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Welcome
Patrick St-Louis:  Can close this, another pr fixed this issue. 
  Open a new one to decide what to do with empty contexts, but this 
  is resolved.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/928
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Closed. open new issue? thank you.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/929
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/930
Patrick St-Louis:  For mines act permit, old process of vc 
  redistribute. Prob is original docu is long pdf form, so version 
  one of cred is more proof of posession than the permit itself.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/931
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  931, Rename usda sc-6 form, russell
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> Guessing 
  we're working from this sort? 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Nis Jespersen :  Straightforward name change, sc-6 was minimal, 
  now in line
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/932
Nis Jespersen :  932, Merging two duplicate credentials
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/933
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Conflict, merge out of band
Nis Jespersen :  933, Two fixes for ag
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/934
Nis Jespersen :  944, Renaming organic certification to 
  certificate
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/935
Nis Jespersen :  Merging quant and measuredval
Ted Thibodeau:  Yes but measured indicates it was actual 
  instrument measuring
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah, different purposes
Nis Jespersen :  Addnl prop saying "source", could be 
  "instrument" or "human reading"
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Sure
Ted Thibodeau:  Modify descriptions rather than removing either
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Term "sensor" / "human user" might be 
  useful, but don't want to go through and make changes
Ted Thibodeau:  Close and make an issue. if likely discussion, 
  issue before PR.
Nis Jespersen :  Sure, closing
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  [In response to Patrick q] both use spec, 
  how they use not relevant, but
Patrick St-Louis:  Workflow instance id belongs to workflow def?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Workflow may have many definitions, could 
  say "I'm importing strawberries", 2 forms, avocadoes 3 forms.
Patrick St-Louis:  Yes. How about if cases where are diff 
  pipelines, canada, US. Is it expected that they'll also need to 
  become in this trace spec? or ok to have players not in spec?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Say gov agency recieving these things. Could 
  say only accept data in if trace. Or could say "I accept trace, 
  but also accept paper". Entirely up to receiving party what they 
  accept.
Patrick St-Louis:  Addnl q, entity wants to issue title to title 
  holder, issue it and send presentation to title holder?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes. How you exchange creds up to you, trace 
  outlines use of presentations. Could do did could do email, but 
  trace creds says "please do this way if you do this way ppl will 
  understand you.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/879
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/819
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/573
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  1-1 After call Patrick? Great
Patrick St-Louis:  So we do want to use datetime?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Ted talked last time abt which 
  interoperable. Can go date to datetime, but can't go datetime to 
  date.
Ted Thibodeau:  Which one will hold the value that matters. If 
  need time, need datetime.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Ik a lot of these datetime is relevant. 
  Worse case scenario they give datetime of midnight, if don't have 
  more granular.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/573
Patrick St-Louis:  I can have a look, don't know if will have 
  time to finish it
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Did say 1.0, Patrick thanks
Ted Thibodeau:  Orie said can close when datetimes addressed, but 
  issue broader. Need to be clear on xsd or schema, but that's just 
  an example.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/schemaorg/schemaorg/issues/1781
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Going through link, trying to find what he's 
  advocating for
Ted Thibodeau:  Use schema.org datatypes only when that's the 
  only option
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  And a lot of them we could use xsd datetime
Ted Thibodeau:  Finding all schema.org datatypes not easy
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  What's harm in "not indexed by semantic 
  repositories", which Vlad cites as a reason we should avoid 
  schema.orog?
Ted Thibodeau:  If on web, want to be indexed by spiders. Vlad 
  says don't index schema text, do index xsd string.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  To me q of whether we use datetime v date is 
  1.0. Question of getting off schema.org more generally is not 1.0 
  I think
Ted Thibodeau:  Right call I think, but be clear abt what's 
  happening on this issue.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Commenting, we should address date v 
  datetime discrepancies, not looking into removing all schema.org 
  for 1.0
Patrick St-Louis:  So I should look at vocab, change all date to 
  datetime?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  If it makes sense. Some places ppl providing 
  date, can't provide datetime.
Patrick St-Louis:  So can start by making list, can discuss which 
  are more suitable.
Nis Jespersen :  Just use datetime? They can use midnight?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  But how distinguish bn real midnight
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/700
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  But v1 for this PR, switch it all to 
  datetimes, then PR review see if any of these shouldn't be
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/702
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  700, Orie, add section on gs1. Commenting, 
  are you interested, will need it soon for v1. Assigning to Paul, 
  if they're not interested they won't have one
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  702 Nis our two specs have drifted 
  (interop/vocab). so we need to update cred examples to only use 
  UUIDs.
Patrick St-Louis:  Doesn't spec specify needs to be URI?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/575
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Data model spec says URN, interop says UUID. 
  So are we ok with having any valid URN, or always UUID?
Nis Jespersen :  Yeah can prioritize
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/895
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/826
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Wait, next issue is your issue on this, with 
  PR that addresses it. Closing
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Use slash not hash. I feel it's nice to have 
  and huge change, shouldn't block 1.0, if we implement this
Ted Thibodeau:  Wait 575 conflation of value, we don't have an 
  issue for steel
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Reopening, Russell handle steel?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/826
Nis Jespersen :  Sure
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/270
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/786
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/596
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  826, Slash not hash, nice to have, huge, 
  shouldn't block 1.0.
Patrick St-Louis:  I know cred id was recent update on [?]. When 
  you assign a cred, should id be provided in request? Or would 
  system generate it and include it in return? We discussed, we 
  said system should not generate its provided in client?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  In trace side we requested it be provided 
  from client, unless I'm forgetting
Patrick St-Louis:  So if id is req, we shouldn't issue cred if 
  not a property?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We landed on, credId req in issued cred, not 
  a req on json being sent to be issued
Patrick St-Louis:  So do we make it so system can add id if not 
  provided by client?
Patrick St-Louis: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api/#issue-credential
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Originally said client should always 
  provide, then ran into issues said as long as issued cred has id 
  should be ok, we shouldn't return 400 if no id.
Patrick St-Louis:  So last week there was PR recommending against 
  this, system should *not* gen id. If system is slow doesn't 
  generate response, lost cred in system
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Valid, but cred IDs relevant, most use cases 
  creds revocable, unusable to have a revocable without id. but bc 
  vast majority are intended to be revocable, we need id.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/draft/#credentials
Patrick St-Louis:  They define option for issuance, could have 
  issued cred without id but still refer to it by internal id
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  In interop, says VCs in presentation MUST 
  include ID prop
Patrick St-Louis:  Must it also contain status?
<chris_abernethy> apologies folks, I need to drop
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  No, just ID.
