[2024-02-20T18:29:41.390Z]	<Guilherme>	present+
[2024-02-20T18:29:41.392Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2024-02-20T18:30:04.857Z]	<Guilherme>	present+
[2024-02-20T18:30:29.461Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2024-02-20T18:31:51.592Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-02-20T18:32:47.149Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2024-02-20T18:33:13.906Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2024-02-20T18:33:37.417Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-02-20T18:33:37.417Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-02-20T18:33:40.954Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_H_(mesur.io): Yeah I can scrape.
[2024-02-20T18:33:42.650Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Awesome thank you Russell.
[2024-02-20T18:33:46.415Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2024-02-20T18:33:52.431Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2024-02-20T18:34:47.789Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/923
[2024-02-20T18:35:06.095Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: welcome

going through rest of our list, knock them out today. 15ish issues. lot of PRs

starting 923, add term and @id for ServiceEndpoint
[2024-02-20T18:35:39.601Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: can close this, another pr fixed this issue. Open a new one to decide what to do with empty contexts, but this is resolved.
[2024-02-20T18:35:49.698Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/928
[2024-02-20T18:36:59.484Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: closed. open new issue? thank you.

928, intro update. Nis and transmute no longer contributing, but this is straightfwd, improvements to intro, positive reviews.

merging.

929 930 both draft PRs from Patrick
[2024-02-20T18:37:01.957Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/929
[2024-02-20T18:37:07.367Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/930
[2024-02-20T18:39:04.954Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: for mines act permit, old process of vc redistribute. Prob is original docu is long pdf form, so version one of cred is more proof of posession than the permit itself.

Still discussion which credential we'll add to the vocab, who will send which cred to whom, can def change descr.
[2024-02-20T18:39:15.832Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/931
[2024-02-20T18:39:17.616Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: 931, rename usda sc-6 form, russell
[2024-02-20T18:39:52.259Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	Guessing we're working from this sort? https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2024-02-20T18:40:08.128Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Russell: straightforward name change, sc-6 was minimal, now in line
[2024-02-20T18:40:16.309Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/932
[2024-02-20T18:40:55.112Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Russell: 932, merging two duplicate credentials
[2024-02-20T18:41:41.789Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/933
[2024-02-20T18:41:45.925Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: conflict, merge out of band
[2024-02-20T18:42:33.684Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Russell: 933, two fixes for ag
[2024-02-20T18:42:49.199Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/934
[2024-02-20T18:44:00.867Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Russell: 944, renaming organic certification to certificate
[2024-02-20T18:44:08.112Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/935
[2024-02-20T18:46:27.721Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Russell: merging quant and measuredval
[2024-02-20T18:46:54.294Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: yes but measured indicates it was actual instrument measuring
[2024-02-20T18:48:08.184Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: yeah, different purposes
[2024-02-20T18:48:40.912Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Russell: addnl prop saying "source", could be "instrument" or "human reading"
[2024-02-20T18:48:43.539Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: sure
[2024-02-20T18:48:53.546Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: modify descriptions rather than removing either
[2024-02-20T18:49:55.597Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: term "sensor" / "human user" might be useful, but don't want to go through and make changes
[2024-02-20T18:52:07.397Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: close and make an issue. if likely discussion, issue before PR.
[2024-02-20T18:52:15.891Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Russell: Sure, closing
[2024-02-20T18:55:52.276Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: [in response to Patrick q] both use spec, how they use not relevant, but

How do workflows, how do you get initial workflow number out of scope of spec, generally each entity probably an agency will have their own rules on how to get workflow num

Diff gov entities today will have allocated broker nums, we expect similar situation may happen. Today any entity may like to communicate with any other entity, defined workflow "I am importing x into us". May point to workflow definition "these are things you can expect in this workflow". Workflow def in trace vocab.

Workflow instance the individual shipment/entry/crude oil import/box of strawberries. Individual box belongs to shipment which will have workflow instance num. Two things, workflow definition and workflow instance num
[2024-02-20T18:56:04.046Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: Workflow instance id belongs to workflow def?
[2024-02-20T18:57:14.686Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: Workflow may have many definitions, could say "I'm importing strawberries", 2 forms, avocadoes 3 forms.

Workflow instance, this specific workflow what's the id.

Does that answer q?
[2024-02-20T18:57:58.545Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: yes. How about if cases where are diff pipelines, canada, US. Is it expected that they'll also need to become in this trace spec? or ok to have players not in spec?
[2024-02-20T18:59:04.638Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: Say gov agency recieving these things. Could say only accept data in if trace. Or could say "I accept trace, but also accept paper". Entirely up to receiving party what they accept.

Spec says, at certain pt if want to correlate creds together should assign workflow ID so we know they're together
[2024-02-20T18:59:26.624Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: Addnl q, entity wants to issue title to title holder, issue it and send presentation to title holder?
[2024-02-20T19:00:09.466Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: Yes. How you exchange creds up to you, trace outlines use of presentations. Could do did could do email, but trace creds says "please do this way if you do this way ppl will understand you.
[2024-02-20T19:00:54.671Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2024-02-20T19:01:07.711Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/879
[2024-02-20T19:01:36.829Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/819
[2024-02-20T19:01:56.230Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/573
[2024-02-20T19:03:28.384Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: 1-1 after call Patrick? Great

We went through 879, table "this is where using", nice to have

819 added post v1 label but didn't cycle, skipping

573, avoid schema.org datatypes. We should use more specific things, says vlad. Ended up saying we should change datetimes. Assigned to Ben but Ben no longer working with us.

Anyone? Patrick you said 16 instances?
[2024-02-20T19:03:35.655Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: so we do want to use datetime?
[2024-02-20T19:04:00.999Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: Ted talked last time abt which interoperable. Can go date to datetime, but can't go datetime to date.
[2024-02-20T19:04:33.149Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: which one will hold the value that matters. If need time, need datetime.
[2024-02-20T19:05:02.082Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: ik a lot of these datetime is relevant. Worse case scenario they give datetime of midnight, if don't have more granular.
[2024-02-20T19:05:13.812Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/573
[2024-02-20T19:05:32.499Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: I can have a look, don't know if will have time to finish it
[2024-02-20T19:05:44.336Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: Did say 1.0, Patrick thanks
[2024-02-20T19:06:29.227Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: Orie said can close when datetimes addressed, but issue broader. Need to be clear on xsd or schema, but that's just an example.
[2024-02-20T19:06:32.989Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/schemaorg/schemaorg/issues/1781
[2024-02-20T19:06:55.476Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: Going through link, trying to find what he's advocating for
[2024-02-20T19:07:08.407Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: Use schema.org datatypes only when that's the only option
[2024-02-20T19:07:19.430Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: and a lot of them we could use xsd datetime
[2024-02-20T19:07:36.910Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: finding all schema.org datatypes not easy
[2024-02-20T19:08:04.782Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: what's harm in "not indexed by semantic repositories", which Vlad cites as a reason we should avoid schema.orog?
[2024-02-20T19:08:29.103Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: if on web, want to be indexed by spiders. Vlad says don't index schema text, do index xsd string.
[2024-02-20T19:09:04.595Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: to me q of whether we use datetime v date is 1.0. Question of getting off schema.org more generally is not 1.0 I think
[2024-02-20T19:09:20.374Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: right call I think, but be clear abt what's happening on this issue.
[2024-02-20T19:10:11.010Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: commenting, we should address date v datetime discrepancies, not looking into removing all schema.org for 1.0
[2024-02-20T19:10:36.149Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: So I should look at vocab, change all date to datetime?
[2024-02-20T19:10:55.078Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: if it makes sense. Some places ppl providing date, can't provide datetime.
[2024-02-20T19:11:38.256Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: so can start by making list, can discuss which are more suitable.
[2024-02-20T19:11:49.474Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Russell: Just use datetime? They can use midnight?
[2024-02-20T19:12:00.749Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: but how distinguish bn real midnight
[2024-02-20T19:12:24.289Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/700
[2024-02-20T19:12:27.000Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: But v1 for this PR, switch it all to datetimes, then PR review see if any of these shouldn't be
[2024-02-20T19:13:14.501Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/702
[2024-02-20T19:13:22.407Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: 700, Orie, add section on gs1. Comminting, are you interested, will need it soon for v1. Assigning to Paul, if they're not interested they won't have one
[2024-02-20T19:14:08.414Z]	<TallTed>	s/Comminting/Commenting/
[2024-02-20T19:15:46.826Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: 702 nis our two specs have drifted (interop/vocab). so we need to update cred examples to only use UUIDs.

Do we want data model to disallow generic URNs? Or is that interop?

For creds allow generic URNs, presentations only UUIDs? Anyone disagree? Can assign self

Any disagreement?
[2024-02-20T19:15:56.726Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: Doesn't spec specify needs to be URI?
[2024-02-20T19:17:35.024Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/575
[2024-02-20T19:18:10.627Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: Data model spec says URN, interop says UUID. So are we ok with having any valid URN, or always UUID?

I think for broad interoperability we want this.

Next up 575 conflation of value, Russell on ag issues?
[2024-02-20T19:18:16.099Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Russell: Yeah can prioritize
[2024-02-20T19:18:30.169Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/895
[2024-02-20T19:19:06.225Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/826
[2024-02-20T19:19:06.908Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: wait, next issue is your issue on this, with PR that addresses it. Closing
[2024-02-20T19:19:49.774Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: use slash not hash. I feel it's nice to have and huge change, shouldn't block 1.0, if we implement this
[2024-02-20T19:21:11.418Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: wait 575 conflation of value, we don't have an issue for steel
[2024-02-20T19:21:19.281Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: Reopening, Russell handle steel?
[2024-02-20T19:21:19.526Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/826
[2024-02-20T19:21:24.771Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Russell: sure
[2024-02-20T19:22:56.352Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/270
[2024-02-20T19:26:45.457Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/786
[2024-02-20T19:27:29.385Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/596
[2024-02-20T19:27:54.647Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: 826, slash not hash, nice to have, huge, shouldn't block 1.0.

Keep open or not? We'll keep it open

270, wrong $linekdData mapping: props vs classes. pending close since oct 24, but someone's responded after.

Mahmoud: We'll keep it open. Initial ask of "let's review and make sure we don't have classes (uppercase) as props.

786, schema validation for gs1 VCs, nis said he'd do, pushed back til vc2.0, not blocker for 1.0.

596, do we make id a req for trace-vocab creds? I believe this is an important one
[2024-02-20T19:28:52.753Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: I know cred id was recent update on [?]. When you assign a cred, should id be provided in request? Or would system generate it and include it in return? We discussed, we said system should not generate its provided in client?
[2024-02-20T19:29:10.138Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: In trace side we requested it be provided from client, unless I'm forgetting
[2024-02-20T19:29:24.997Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: so if id is req, we shouldn't issue cred if not a property?
[2024-02-20T19:29:44.388Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: We landed on, credId req in issued cred, not a req on json being sent to be issued
[2024-02-20T19:29:59.028Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: So do we make it so system can add id if not provided by client?
[2024-02-20T19:30:12.945Z]	<Patrick>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api/#issue-credential
[2024-02-20T19:30:31.280Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: Originally said client should always provide, then ran into issues said as long as issued cred has id should be ok, we shouldn't return 400 if no id.
[2024-02-20T19:31:09.646Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: So last week there was PR recommending against this, system should *not* gen id. If system is slow doesn't generate response, lost cred in system
[2024-02-20T19:31:45.682Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: valid, but cred IDs relevant, most use cases creds revocable, unusable to have a revocable without id. but bc vast majority are intended to be revocable, we need id.
[2024-02-20T19:32:16.332Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/draft/#credentials
[2024-02-20T19:32:20.321Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: they define option for issuance, could have issued cred without id but still refer to it by internal id
[2024-02-20T19:32:35.902Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: In interop, says VCs in presentation MUST include ID prop
[2024-02-20T19:32:44.226Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Patrick: Must it also contain status?
[2024-02-20T19:32:49.960Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	apologies folks, I need to drop
[2024-02-20T19:33:40.656Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: No, just ID.

Wrapping up this issue, there are assigned ppl on it, marking it as 1.0 bc straightfwd
