Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-10-11-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-10-11-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2022-10-11

Agenda:
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/blob/main/AGENDA.md
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Chris Abernethy, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Ben - Transmute, nis, Adam 
  C, vivien, Russell Hofvendahl (mesur.io), Orie Steele

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I did that wrong I'm not.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Looks like it's working.
Chris_Abernethy: I did not hear the recording his starting 
  started.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  The transcriber started with looks like 
  they're according to not started but I do have a Star Trek let me 
  talk light on and off.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Can't even stop it.
<orie> sry I am late
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/436
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/167
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/185
<chris_abernethy> @mahmoud, transcriber looks broken?
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
<mahmoud> looks like its back up now?
<mahmoud> i toggled it on/off
Orie Steele:  To Json schema depending on if you're in a 
  standards organization or you know or if you're in open source 
  world you can just point to whatever you want but from a formal 
  perspective Json schema and we've been formalized standard even 
  though it has like a lots of adoption and lots of implementing 
  something that kind of thing so I don't think we would ask.
<chris_abernethy> yes, thanks!
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: +1
<mahmoud> thats my impression too
Orie Steele:  Regarding these things I think we've already asked 
  the json-ld community group regarding it and their answer is was 
  basically like hey it looks like what you're doing is cool but 
  it's not really json-ld and it's not really schema.org so you 
  should just keep doing it we're doing it that's kind of what I 
  gathered from those but someone else wants to pick up that ball 
  and try and make a play I'm happy to support.
Chris_Abernethy: The literal crickets in the background is the 
  nice touch.
Chris_Abernethy: Or should I add pending close to this and we can 
  just pick it up again in a few weeks.
Chris_Abernethy: This is now pending close.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/231
Chris_Abernethy: Next issue is issue number 231 all right this is 
  another one from you.
Orie Steele:  So this is from my last review and foreign charged 
  Declaration was was broken so let's go and let's see is it still 
  broken or in charge declaration is still broken.
Orie Steele:  Taking a screenshot.
Orie Steele:  And updating the ticket.
Orie Steele:  All right and there it is and we can move on.
Chris_Abernethy: Yes thank you for taking that.
Chris_Abernethy: Okay next issue is 235.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/235
Chris_Abernethy: This is another one from worry regarding 
  medication list 2020 status.
Orie Steele:  All right let's do the same thing.
Orie Steele:  This one seems fixed to me.
Chris_Abernethy: There is a merged PR from Benjamin.
Chris_Abernethy: Or if it's going to work.
Orie Steele:  I'm going to close and I'm going to comment and 
  close.
Chris_Abernethy: Perfect thank you.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/464
Chris_Abernethy: Okay then she 464 Benjamin this is one of yours 
  regarding publishing minutes.
Ben_-_Transmute: Okay I think I think this has been solved by 
  Chris has instructions on traceability interrupt I guess we copy 
  these over those over.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  No I think what.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So I think what I did here was I added the 
  initial minutes to this and then on the trace and drop side Chris 
  did a rehaul of it think it's a really good idea to move them 
  here yeah.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Or we just linked from here to there then 
  also would make it easy.
Ben_-_Transmute: Let's see as far as the questions do we need to 
  boot everyone out of the meeting when we're done.
Ben_-_Transmute: Okay at least the means repo that was done in 
  Chris's interrupt read me.
Ben_-_Transmute: 43 transcriber failing I guess when we hit 
  record sometimes the record doesn't start sometimes a transcriber 
  doesn't start we go to menu and stop and start it independently 
  of report instead of stopping the meeting was that how we address 
  number three okay.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It will fail for some people namely Ness and 
  as far as I can tell nobody else that feels more can anyone 
  confirm that it fails for them other than this.
Chris_Abernethy: I've only seen it feel furnace.
Orie Steele:  Only seen a fail for this I've seen it misquote me 
  and attribute hateful or inappropriate content to me when I speak 
  and I dislike generally seeing it because I don't trust the notes 
  and I think it's I think it's bad habits basically I prefer for 
  it to be off.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  My preference is to is this in a similar 
  vein but instead I would have a backup transcriber he just reads 
  it and correct small things I think it's still easier to use it 
  would someone going through it and checking rather than having 
  someone transcribe everything.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I don't know how the rest of the group 
  feels.
Orie Steele:  Men generally in the w3c if it's a formal work item 
  we don't use an AI transcriber we have someone described and it's 
  part of engaging in the work and supporting work learning how to 
  scribe and those sets of skills I think that's all valuable stuff 
  for folks to learn.
Chris_Abernethy: I have seen enough errors in the transcriber 
  that I second that.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Do you want to take a vote.
Ben_-_Transmute: Okay before we address that or do we want 
  there's also Point number four on this issue of do we update 
  people that Jason but that's I guess let's let's address the 
  transcriber first.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay I'm going to put a proposal on the 
  truck let me know if the wording is fine with everyone.
Orie Steele:  So don't vote at first just review the proposal and 
  request any changes to it that you might have before we run it.
Ben_-_Transmute: I'm expecting but we don't not want to.

PROPOSAL:  Stop using the automated Transcriber, instead assign a 
  scribe at the start of the meeting

Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay I hope that's not convoluted enough for 
  you then but I'm doing.
Orie Steele:  Yeah I'm good with that proposal.
Ben_-_Transmute: That's not very straightforward yes I'm okay.
Orie Steele: +1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay so if no one has issues with this then 
  let's run the proposal please plus 1 minus 1 and.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: -1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  All right I think that's everyone unless.
Orie Steele:  Vivian Vivian didn't years.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think that's most people and I think I'm 
  happy to let it go Vivian are you are you okay with going forward 
  are you going to block the.
Vivien: Yeah awesome okay going for just feel like manual 
  transcribing just too much work but any help I'll go with the 
  majority.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Fair enough I guess we're switching to the 
  manual describing do you want to start it for the rest of this 
  meeting or do you want to go starting from next.
Orie Steele:  I think next meetings probably best we should just 
  make sure we update our process documents to describe you know 
  how to start the meeting and I asked for a scribe I described 
  plus all of the IRC instructions that you give in a formal 
  working group like the w3c verify the credentials working group 
  or the did working group like.
Orie Steele:   There's a set of.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: https://www.w3.org/2008/04/scribe.html
Orie Steele:  Options we give to folks who are new to help them 
  on those calls and also those calls tend to have more folks 
  joining and we try and grow call participation so that the Scribe 
  burden isn't isn't you know to too burdensome so I think the 
  other side of this is like we should be looking to grow the call 
  participation here and teaching people how to scribe and actually 
  this is one of the reasons you might want to join a smaller group 
  like this is.
Orie Steele:   I'll teach you how to you know how to handle 
  things.
Orie Steele:  The w3c for.
Orie Steele:  That you can use those skills when you migrate to a 
  formal working group in the future.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yep I put a link.
Chris_Abernethy: Is somebody on the call familiar with those 
  procedures and will volunteer to create an issue.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Put a link to the w3c guide for it in chat.
Chris_Abernethy: Ah I see it thank you I will.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Might be a good idea put down there with me.
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah I will update the instructions for trace 
  interop and then we can Cascade that into this ticket to copy 
  those over to Grace vocab.
Chris_Abernethy: So Benjamin do we want to make this ready for 
  PR.
Chris_Abernethy: Pull the instructions over for issue for 64.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yes I would say ready for beer.
Chris_Abernethy: Change the label now.
Ben_-_Transmute: And then I guess does that also include the 
  action item of updating the instructions to include descriptions 
  for strikes.
Chris_Abernethy: Yes let me leave a comment to that effect.
Chris_Abernethy: Okay that has been commented.
Ben_-_Transmute: I guess also for using a manual scribe does that 
  mean we don't need to boot everyone out of the meeting when we're 
  done.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  The recording is independent Of The Scribe.
Ben_-_Transmute: Okay that's okay that's for the recording okay.
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah the recording is a bit wonky if you forget 
  to stop it or if you don't boot everyone it does it takes a long 
  time for it to decide it's done and actually write the recording 
  to disk.
Ben_-_Transmute: Okay then to ask a quick stupid question all we 
  need is an audio OGG for that so is it possible to make a local 
  recording as a backup respect.
Ben_-_Transmute: Not is it not as a practical but is it possible.
Chris_Abernethy: I mean I think that anyone on the call could 
  conceivably recorded as well I don't know how that fits in with.
Chris_Abernethy: Earl procedures for this type of meeting.
Ben_-_Transmute: Okay just double checking so let's send we 
  haven't had too much problem with the audio .o G not working for 
  us so let's just assume that it will continue to keep working for 
  us unless it doesn't at least until it doesn't okay.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/160
Chris_Abernethy: That brings us to issue when 60 this is from Ted 
  link is in the chat and it's related to updating the readme 
  anyone comments on this.
Chris_Abernethy: It's like the last commenter was you been.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I accept this is like half a year ago I'm 
  not exactly sure so any changes the potential introduced break 
  are not backwards capability functionality must have a 
  corresponding issue and discussion require consensus from editors 
  so.
Orie Steele:  So Ted objected to the idea that editors control 
  work items his point was the w3c processes that editors Implement 
  working group consensus this is a community group basically I 
  don't agree with his position as I said several years ago it is 
  the case that if ever you're disappointed in something someone in 
  a community group is doing you can ask the community.
Orie Steele:   Group chairs to enter.
Orie Steele:  Or you can go to the formal Woodsman process at w3c 
  if you're having a dispute with someone but I think this is 
  basically Overkill and should be closed.
Ben_-_Transmute: Okay I'm perfectly okay with Penny close on 
  this.
Chris_Abernethy: I will remove ready for PR and add pending 
  clips.
Chris_Abernethy: And I will add two notes.
Chris_Abernethy: Okay the next issue is 1920 Russell I'll juice 
  you're on.
Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah for the pull request 584 it I 
  fix the Agricultural and the sanity test turned out to be an easy 
  fix as well so if you wanted to merge that now that should be 
  doable.
Orie Steele:  Thanks for pointing that out can we take another 
  look at it can you refresh the link.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/584
Orie Steele:  Try and merge anything we can.
Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Oh I changed a bunch of other eggs 
  to agriculture all while I was at it.
Chris_Abernethy: I'm looking at the Justice now it looks like it 
  ran all tests with passing results.
Chris_Abernethy: Benjamin if you agree and can review remove your 
  change request.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yes yes I don't text it and I approved it.
Chris_Abernethy: And I will merge 584 now.
Orie Steele:  Yes that's a big Improvement those little those 
  little readability issues in a large number of schemas they 
  matter a lot.
Chris_Abernethy: Okay 584 has been merged and you said you also 
  fixed 585 is that or that that was right sorry.
Ben_-_Transmute: Look I found a small pull request 588 so that 
  instead of just calling console.log it returns false for the just 
  test.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/588/files
Ben_-_Transmute: I don't know we work on do that now or if this 
  is enough to satisfy the issue.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think we I think we might as well just so 
  that we can get this out in as soon as possible.
Ben_-_Transmute: Hopefully I can.
Chris_Abernethy: Just to clarify will this cause CI to fail when.
Orie Steele:  That was my car.
Ben_-_Transmute: Tight or go ahead.
Orie Steele:  That was my question it doesn't seem like it's 
  exploding enough but maybe maybe just cause a CI to fail it just 
  isn't obvious to me looking at the code that would.
Ben_-_Transmute: Oh I'm under the sitting there is a loose this 
  is running a promise that all where it returns true or false and 
  then under that it says expect everything to be true so what's 
  happening here is this just calling console are and then 
  returning true and then yeah.
Orie Steele:  I expanded I think it's good I'm in favor of 
  merging this immediately.
Chris_Abernethy: Excellent I will if you prove that or E so we 
  get that little green check I will merch.
Ben_-_Transmute: Oh and before you merge let me leave the issue 
  actually it we can like make the issue even after it gets merged.
Orie Steele:  Yes you can.
Chris_Abernethy: Okay merging out.
Chris_Abernethy: Okay any other PR changes to discuss before we 
  return to issues.
Ben_-_Transmute: Thanks for bringing that up or something.
Ben_-_Transmute: I think they were using entity so potentially 
  that but we can.
Ben_-_Transmute: All in a transparent see what happens.
Chris_Abernethy: And there isn't this just a few FYI there's a 
  now I conflict on 585.
Chris_Abernethy: Okay let's move on to issue this again.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/393
Chris_Abernethy: Next issue is 455 which is a pending closed 
  issue.
Chris_Abernethy: Regarding the traceable presentation example 
  there are some question about or a whether or not you can curd at 
  this was addressed by PR 458.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/458
Chris_Abernethy: I think that PR in the chat.
Orie Steele:  There's the pull request what's the issue though.
Chris_Abernethy: Yes you is 455.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/455
Chris_Abernethy: Sorry grab that now.
Orie Steele:  There's no link in the chat to that that's the one 
  I'm trying to all right update traceable presentation example 
  right I remember looking at a pull request we discuss this what 
  is it saying including example where the holder is an object so 
  I'm just going to click the link and they'll example has a holder 
  that's an object we're good I think we're.
Orie Steele:  Looks good to me any any anyone else think that.
Orie Steele:  I'm going to close it.
Chris_Abernethy: In the princess simple 92 which is a proposal 
  writing tagging structure moving schema objects.
Chris_Abernethy: I'm already the scissors there's been some back 
  and forth on this between you and Ben.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/192
Orie Steele:  I think we implemented some version of this so we 
  have folder structures now for schema objects my assertion is 
  that this is working and there's no changes were expecting to 
  make anyone think there's some proposal for future I think we 
  employee did these things.
Chris_Abernethy: Okay I will close unless I know in packs.
Orie Steele:  I closed it.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/416
Chris_Abernethy: 416 yeah sure.
Orie Steele:  So this would impact a lot of credentials it is 
  basically to remove the confusion over the word certificate we've 
  heard non-technical people or technical people be confused like 
  why are you calling these things certificates We inherited that 
  from the other vocabularies like the permanent resident card you 
  know and actually a permanent resident card one is doesn't have.
Orie Steele:   That's it has a.
Orie Steele:  I think they use the credenza or credential so what 
  we're trying to do is give an rdf type to the verifiable 
  credential format that we support that's the objective and we 
  want to group all the credentials together and we have that in 
  the in the vocabulary today so when you look at the section of 
  credentials you'll see a whole bunch of words with the word 
  credential at the end instead of a whole bunch of words with.
Orie Steele:   The word certificate at the end so that kind of.
Orie Steele:  And I'm happy to change the word to whatever makes 
  people happy just being aware that people will never actually be 
  happy and probably want us to change the word again.
Chris_Abernethy: Okay so listen Ben how do you.
Chris_Abernethy: What are you hoping to you.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I don't understand sorry can you repeat 
  this.
Ben_-_Transmute: My main concern here is just with renaming with 
  respect to GitHub repos is that you're deleting one file and then 
  you're creating a new file with a different name so my main 
  concern is if there is other merge repressor open at the same 
  time and we do this someone is gonna do a merge request with 
  respect to the to the certificate postfix and then that's going 
  to get deleted and.
Ben_-_Transmute: With the old content of yeah.
Orie Steele:  Yeah I understand that the issue there is just 
  basically one of how do you dress merge conflicts or when people 
  are trying to make changes when you do a massive change set you 
  tend to prefer the bias towards the massive change set since it's 
  more work for that person than it would be for the other guy to 
  redo their work so when if there's a pull request up we should 
  say oh like let's merge that one first because that's the big one 
  and it's going to be difficult.
Orie Steele:   What if we don't merge it.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I don't I don't think we need to merge it 
  out and meeting specifically but I think we just want it when it 
  does come up I think we should give it priority and that's just 
  what an assist for me.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yep I think we just give it a merge first 
  tagging when the piers open and we're good.
Chris_Abernethy: Okay and that is all I have time for one more.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/217
Chris_Abernethy: The next issue is 217 idlers we need a road map 
  mock moon this one is yours.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Let me just Refresh on this.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah I don't think we ended up with.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Plan on how to do this but know what I was 
  hoping for was a target of what we would need to cut our first 
  release right and my plan for a roadmap wasn't a time-based one 
  but rather a feature-based one where we can say this is the 
  absolute minimum subset of things that we will need so that we 
  can say we are ready to launch V1 of Trace vocab context right.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   And then obviously we're going to you know.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Further the lat I'm not sure how to tackle 
  this I think Ben had a really good suggestion of splitting it by 
  vertical of saying this is what I need for my vertical and this 
  is what I have missing and you know once I have all these things 
  in that I'm ready but you know I'm happy to hear any other 
  suggestions if anyone.
<nis> v1.0
Ben_-_Transmute: I think I listen in general I think that we need 
  to have a fixed version one sometime hopefully before testing 
  really commences because I don't think we're going to be taking 
  Siri if if we have contacts and stuff that changes and breaks 
  proofs you know as we work and I think that events you know we do 
  want to have a certain list of things that says you know if we 
  have if these conditions are met we can.
Ben_-_Transmute:  say version 1 is complete and we're not going 
  to.
Ben_-_Transmute: We're not going to touch it and then work it 
  address further changes in conflicts and version 2 I'm not 
  entirely sure that we would need at specific specifically need a 
  perfect version 1 if we have schemas are defined and we have 
  context of this to find and we have don't have any undefined 
  terms I think we could Define a narrow list of criteria that 
  would satisfy version 1.
Chris_Abernethy: Okay so do we have an action that we can call 
  out here.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  My suggestion as an action is for every 
  vertical we list out what are the schemas that we believe we are 
  missing that once we have these keema's we're ready for a V1 and 
  then we take a look at that list of credentials which should help 
  us identify commonalities and then a path to V 1 right I think if 
  we try and approach it without that vertical level.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Another option is we can say per vendor each 
  vendor goes in and says it but that's roughly the same thing and 
  it's more exclusionary than saying / vertical right in my mind 
  every we go / vertical and say this is these are all the 
  credentials that I need to have lockdown for V1 and these are the 
  ones that are not there yet and then from there we can take a 
  look and we can you know but put it.
Chris_Abernethy: That sounds good and that's about all we have 
  time for today is anyone volunteer to post a meeting minutes for 
  this week.
Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): I can do that.
Chris_Abernethy: Awesome thank you Russell and I believe you are 
  in control of the meeting if you would stop recording and to kick 
  everyone.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Kick everyone first and stop recording 
  right.
Chris_Abernethy: Everybody see you next week.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay cool thank you everyone and have a 
  great week.
