[2022-10-25T19:01:29.545Z]	<Patrick_(IDLab)>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:01:29.550Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:01:40.923Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:01:42.146Z]	<Todd_Snyder>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:01:53.437Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:02:47.887Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:03:23.710Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:03:51.810Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:04:01.816Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: vcapi
[2022-10-25T19:05:40.380Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:05:40.381Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:05:40.382Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:05:42.986Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:05:44.475Z]	<Todd_Snyder>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:05:46.773Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:05:52.402Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:05:54.903Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:05:55.745Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:06:03.871Z]	<Patrick_(IDLab)>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:06:45.144Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Oct/0103.html
[2022-10-25T19:06:48.258Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-10-25T19:06:48.258Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay here is the agenda for today.
[2022-10-25T19:06:52.148Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:07:19.976Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is the verifiable credentials API work item call this is October 25th 2022 on the agenda today is standard introductions relevant Community updates we have challenge Management in the VC API which is a discussion we started last week which we will continue this week we have an.
[2022-10-25T19:07:20.240Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  issue around.
[2022-10-25T19:07:39.632Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah we have an issue for default issuer and then credential ID and updating the credential status and then any other issues as time permits anything else that we need to cover today.
[2022-10-25T19:07:55.171Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Sure thing hate on how you doing.
[2022-10-25T19:07:57.407Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: I'd post a question if there's time for meeting about the options being passed to the issuer in the verifier get some clarity on this I know.
[2022-10-25T19:08:26.122Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: See if this works it's working okay all right so yeah Todd let's take that as maybe the first item how much time do you need for that.
[2022-10-25T19:08:37.582Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: I just really wanted some clarification on the how we're supposed to handle the options being passed in.
[2022-10-25T19:08:46.544Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay okay alright so let's go ahead and take that up right after we do introductions and relevant Community updates any other topics to cover today.
[2022-10-25T19:08:54.314Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Introductions, Relevant Community Updates
[2022-10-25T19:09:04.178Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay if not let's go ahead and get into the agenda is there anyone new to the call Todd maybe you could give a little bit of your background since you're new here.
[2022-10-25T19:09:29.823Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:09:31.168Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: It sure I'm representing gs1 u.s. today I believe Paul Dietrich was involved the calls previously you could make it today yeah I've been working with did we see stuff for last year and a half recently we've been starting a new project try to get a better handle on what you guys are doing is what was some of the stuff going on with the border patrol traceability sweet stuff that's pretty much all.
[2022-10-25T19:09:35.660Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: It takes me.
[2022-10-25T19:09:43.780Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Great welcome to the group Todd good to see you here anyone else that's new to the call that wants to do an introduction or reintroduction if you change jobs or just want to say hi again.
[2022-10-25T19:10:16.674Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Right then next up is relevant Community updates please feel free to Q if you've got any I've got a couple one of them is that the verifiable credential data Integrity spec is going to be going to first public working draft the vote for that is tomorrow I believe so let me add this link.
[2022-10-25T19:10:16.937Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  ink in.
[2022-10-25T19:10:19.605Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Create a First Public Working Draft for Data Integrity: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-integrity/pull/67
[2022-10-25T19:10:36.409Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: There's a PR to do a first public working draft of data integrity and that covers all the security in securing verifiable credentials if you using the json-ld form of those things.
[2022-10-25T19:10:40.772Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So there's that.
[2022-10-25T19:11:11.764Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The other heads up and we'll go into this in a bit we're going to cover some pull request but there's a number of pull requests that have been raised against the verifiable credentials API do to kind of implementation feedback so we should probably cover those forgot to mention those at the at the top of the agenda anything else any other updates things that we should know about.
[2022-10-25T19:11:45.991Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Oh I should I totally forgot to mention also that the jobs for the future plugfest number two is happening right now and we have been busily integrating people that are have implemented it over chappie or using the verifiable credential API in today we have me try and go to the issue.
[2022-10-25T19:11:46.293Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  or playground.
[2022-10-25T19:11:59.770Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:12:16.990Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You're my screen here so today we've got the following issuers implemented API catalog that's a java-based implementation Danube Tech that's Marcus's implementation learning economy is the newest addition to the issuer back ends measure I/O and of course the various demo issuer so we've got these five with a.
[2022-10-25T19:12:17.346Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  couple more on.
[2022-10-25T19:12:47.648Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: At least two to three more that are on the way that we're going to integrate with this and that's basically for issuing you know jobs for the future badges but the good news here is that we're going to be adding more and more credentials as time goes on to this list and so if anyone in the group wants a credential here like a specific type of verifiable credential definitely let us know and we'll try to integrate it into the the list of credentials we also have a.
[2022-10-25T19:13:19.108Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Examples thing that we're putting together where anybody can contribute verifiable credential kind of templates and they'll be added to the list and then using that you can select the backend issuing framework select whether or not you want it off and then issue the credential and then put it into any wallet that supports either web-based digital wallets through choppy or native wallets through chappie.
[2022-10-25T19:13:19.590Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So yeah that's.
[2022-10-25T19:13:45.849Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: On and again I think we've got three digital wallets and five issuers so far that have been degraded with a couple more on the way I'm more wallets and were issuers there okay I think that's it for announcements go ahead Patrick.
[2022-10-25T19:13:49.561Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Sorry what's the name of what's the name of this event.
[2022-10-25T19:14:16.376Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	the event link is: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/plugfest-2-2022/
[2022-10-25T19:14:21.536Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The jobs for the future plugfest so it's jmf plug-in jobs here or the future so it's mused slowed its jobs for the Future these folks and it's Walmart Foundation has funded a big plugfest for verifiable potentially Shores digital wallets verifiers it's happening in three stages we're in.
[2022-10-25T19:14:21.911Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  stage 2 now stage.
[2022-10-25T19:14:34.047Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The second phase ends mid-november and then the third phase is going to test while it's tough and Dimitri put a link in in the chat Channel if you're interested in learning more.
[2022-10-25T19:14:44.907Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Thing else before we move on from here.
[2022-10-25T19:15:00.813Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: VC API Options
[2022-10-25T19:15:03.195Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Todd why don't we pick up your question first this is VC options.
[2022-10-25T19:15:25.219Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: Yeah we've been working on implementing our own version of the VC API just want to get some clarification or where we can maybe find some examples what people are doing with the the main challenge when they're issuing a single a single credential not sure exactly what to do with those options rather they would reflect the V3 API.
[2022-10-25T19:15:43.231Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	How domain and challenge is used today: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vp-request-spec/#did-authentication
[2022-10-25T19:15:43.267Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Gotcha so in the VP request spec I think we have an example in bid authentication around somehow domain and challenges used so I'm going to put something in the chat channel for you to copy.
[2022-10-25T19:16:14.580Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: With the VC API and if you're using the verifiable presentation request thing and you're doing something like did authentication when a did authentication comes across it asks it gives you a challenge and a domain and what you're supposed to do is you're supposed to include that challenge and the domain in your response so the the site the verifier will say I need you to did authenticate with me.
[2022-10-25T19:16:25.376Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:16:46.145Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: These did methods here's a challenge and here's a domain that you need to include in your response and then when you respond what you do is you create a verifiable presentation in sign it and you know this is you the holder or signing it in in the proof block you're supposed to include the challenge ensure the domain matches the domain you're talking to and then include the domain as well did that answer your question Todd or.
[2022-10-25T19:16:55.284Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You don't have to.
[2022-10-25T19:16:56.592Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: A little bit okay yeah so we're just working with the VC API test Suite right now and focusing on issuing so wasn't clear to us so this is a Capri.
[2022-10-25T19:17:26.299Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Looted for that for the test suite for just the test Suite you don't need to include domain or challenge the the test Suite only tests the backend API for issuance meaning like you've got you know let's say you've got like a gs1 system that that's sitting at the edge of the internet and then behind that gs1 system in your own security domain you've got a verifiable credential issuing platform the call is going to be purely in your security domain like your.
[2022-10-25T19:17:26.741Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  area of trust so you're just.
[2022-10-25T19:17:54.518Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: Yes I believe so yep.
[2022-10-25T19:17:58.577Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The issuer in the issuer based on like some kind of oauth 2 authentication you do with it is going to trust you and it's going to just issue a credential with whatever you say it should issue so for the VC API test Suite specifically let me make sure we're talking about the same thing API it's it's the issue here it's this one the issuer test Suite okay got this one does not require Challenger domain to.
[2022-10-25T19:17:58.967Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  be sent in the.
[2022-10-25T19:18:12.280Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That's right exactly.
[2022-10-25T19:18:15.573Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: Got yoga but you do want to do did authorization that's where you would expect to get these in and then you would do a sounds like basically would verify who's calling you then that you were expecting them to call you okay.
[2022-10-25T19:18:43.883Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep you got it yep and that happens more in the in the exchanges stuff so if you look at you see API this is still in there let me check to make sure if we look at this it the exchanges and points that's where you would expect there to be some kind of did auth so the second you initiate an exchange.
[2022-10-25T19:18:44.247Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  The Who.
[2022-10-25T19:19:15.375Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Thing with like the verifier would sorry the verifier would respond with this so if you're like I want let's say you're the let's say you're the verifier Todd and I'm someone connecting to you when I want to initiate an exchange with you I'll post to some endpoint of yours that you've given me out of band and you would respond back with this like I need you to did authenticate and then I would respond back with.
[2022-10-25T19:19:17.856Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	q+
[2022-10-25T19:19:28.278Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: Gotcha I think I'm understood okay so somewhere how you know off them flow most Works you're gonna pass be something I'm looking for and I'm going to respond back with yes I know it's you have access.
[2022-10-25T19:19:57.670Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You got it yep yep in the thing the key thing with the exchanges and point here is that you can go back and forth any number of times so like you can say like I can hit you know I can hit your endpoint and you'll say I need you to get off and then I'm like okay here you go here's a DOT and then you can respond back with either like here's your verifiable credential or you can respond back with oh well now I need you to prove to me.
[2022-10-25T19:19:57.971Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  me that you're you know.
[2022-10-25T19:20:17.240Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Your business location is within the United States right and then I give you back a credential I present a credential back to you that says this is my business and it exists in the United States and then and then we can go back and forth with the exchanges stuff like that.
[2022-10-25T19:20:26.411Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: Okay yeah this was off because in the Swagger documentation it shows us for the issuer and the verifier endpoints the 3D have these options so.
[2022-10-25T19:20:45.193Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: They do have the options you do not need to provide them at all times yeah there's only when you're like engaged in a in exchange of some kind where you need to challenge the client or need to provide a challenge to the client only at that point do you need to use those options.
[2022-10-25T19:20:50.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I hope that made sense.
[2022-10-25T19:20:55.674Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: Yeah I might have more questions later but I think a get some clarity what we were looking at them.
[2022-10-25T19:21:03.703Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And we'll have a wheel have a did authentication test Suite soonish that uses those parameters.
[2022-10-25T19:21:06.547Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: I've got to keep my radar too.
[2022-10-25T19:21:11.036Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay yep okay did that answer your question.
[2022-10-25T19:21:18.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: Yeah I think it did thank you is posing questions through the GitHub repo the best way to communicate.
[2022-10-25T19:21:35.527Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: Yeah understood engine so I just have one other quick question you can probably put in the right direction there's also a signature sweet test Suite.
[2022-10-25T19:21:36.941Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Signature Suites
[2022-10-25T19:21:38.408Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And these calls are probably the best way to get a get an answer and when we meet we meet you know weekly the you know we're all chill we're all time challenge these days and so yeah yep.
[2022-10-25T19:21:48.744Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes yeah yeah.
[2022-10-25T19:21:52.586Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: I was trying to get that up to working this morning and then I noticed something that you guys always that you work with did Keys is that correct for that test we occur we're just trying to figure out if that was something we have to look at now either okay.
[2022-10-25T19:22:21.141Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah so there to that you should probably pay attention to the let me let's see Edie unfortunately this is not let me be here we go so there are two test Suites this one is a test Suite that I mean it's just you know digit bizarre implementing it right now we know that we actually there a couple of others that actually pass this test Suite we just haven't added them yet.
[2022-10-25T19:22:21.567Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  oh I'm sorry now this is the.
[2022-10-25T19:22:33.782Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	"eddsa-2022" -- https://w3c-ccg.github.io/di-eddsa-2022-test-suite/
[2022-10-25T19:22:54.354Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Sorry this is this is the new one so this is there's a new new one this is the thing that is being standardized in the VC working group so that this is the new one that basically hardly hit I don't think anyone's there are a lot of people that have implemented this one the Ed to 5519 one is the older one and this one has you know multiple implementers.
[2022-10-25T19:22:54.709Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  is there the.
[2022-10-25T19:23:13.448Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	"Ed25519Signature2020" -- https://w3c-ccg.github.io/di-ed25519-test-suite/
[2022-10-25T19:23:27.321Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: In both of them this the signature format is exactly the same except for the type and the crypto sweet label if you're so this this was sorry D and S sure 2020 this one that I just put in the chat Channel that's the one that's been deployed across the u.s. for the true age program and this things in production right so this one's not going to go anywhere it's safe to it.
[2022-10-25T19:23:27.720Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  implement it it will be outlined in the.
[2022-10-25T19:23:45.229Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Respect for a tedious a but if you're doing something that's a little more future facing you may want to move to the crypto Suite based mechanism there they're really the implementation for them are like really close except for like two if statements basically.
[2022-10-25T19:23:51.603Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So if you implement one the chances that you can implement the other super high.
[2022-10-25T19:23:55.284Z]	<Transcriber>	Todd_Snyder: Got you could furnish thank you.
[2022-10-25T19:24:01.408Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Pull Requests
[2022-10-25T19:24:05.180Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pulls
[2022-10-25T19:24:23.612Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay no problem alright let's go ahead and jump into pull request next quests here are our pull requests I have not had a chance to look at these we do have the renamed app to coordinator that thing just needs to be merged in haven't been able to do that yet there was 309.
[2022-10-25T19:24:36.485Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pull/309
[2022-10-25T19:24:41.933Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: APR 22 the exchanges and point we don't really need to go.
[2022-10-25T19:24:56.098Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This might be a typo that's being fixed so we'll have to look into that but it looks like you know a typo that's that's being fixed going back.
[2022-10-25T19:25:27.491Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Let's see serve index in docs is Andrew here today let's see Andrew okay so this is just upgrades to the documentation to help people understand how they can actually develop on the specification so it looks like Andrews added a HTTP server serving cores so that you can do just doing it.
[2022-10-25T19:25:27.813Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  npm install and do.
[2022-10-25T19:25:40.097Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pull/312/
[2022-10-25T19:25:41.420Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: API development so that one's looking good that's 312 go ahead and get this in there.
[2022-10-25T19:26:18.208Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This is one of the things that we talked about last week which is implementing a verifiable credential object container so it all of our top level objects we made a decision a while ago to make sure that they were container objects like if it was a presentation it shouldn't be a raw presentation verifiable presentation at the top level you should have a property named verifiable presentation and you should put the.
[2022-10-25T19:26:42.729Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: They're same thing with verifiable credential we did that largely so that you could also pass and things like options you could provide metadata and do all sorts of things like that Andrew here has raised a PR to make sure that that applies to this this endpoint.
[2022-10-25T19:27:05.916Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pull/314
[2022-10-25T19:27:14.863Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah so just adjust to this end point here when you issue a issue a credential in the response you get back a verifiable credential that was a bug that is now or would be fixed by that PR same fix for believe 314 although he's saying this is a draft not ready for review but it's basically making the same.
[2022-10-25T19:27:46.217Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Change here to make sure that there is a verifiable presentation response like that when you get a verifiable presentation back from the API it's encapsulated in a verifiable presentation property so he's implementing the fix we talked about last week and then let's see adding a 404 not found to.
[2022-10-25T19:28:13.355Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	q-
[2022-10-25T19:28:20.801Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This needs by shedding I guess but this is replacing the put with a post this is something we talked about last week where it didn't make sense to put data here you're really posting data to an exchange transaction ID and then Andrews adding a 404 for not being able to find a transaction or sorry an exchange with a particular transaction ID I'm sorry Paul I totally missed the.
[2022-10-25T19:28:21.108Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  that you were on the Q was.
[2022-10-25T19:28:22.963Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I don't know Q.
[2022-10-25T19:28:32.768Z]	<Transcriber>	PaulDietrich_GS1: Oh yeah that was from earlier but I think mono have to drop off so I'll try to reach out to you it was a question on the exchange interface but also reach out to at a different time.
[2022-10-25T19:28:35.744Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Gosh I'm really sorry about that totally did not see on the queue.
[2022-10-25T19:29:05.037Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right and so those are all the polls remember our process it's typically seven days of review we'd like to see multiple reviewers on these and then after seven days if there are no objections and you know change suggestions have been made will merge those things into the specification any questions concerns about existing pull requests.
[2022-10-25T19:29:21.534Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Challenge management in the VC API
[2022-10-25T19:29:27.540Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/310
[2022-10-25T19:29:39.762Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay if not we can pick up the conversation we started last week again so we were talking about challenge Management in the verifiable credential API in the conversation was just picking up when we had to basically end the call so we're going to pick up the conversation where we were last week would anyone like to kind of summarize.
[2022-10-25T19:29:40.032Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  where we.
[2022-10-25T19:29:42.308Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I can try here.
[2022-10-25T19:29:50.774Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So let me let me give it a shot.
[2022-10-25T19:30:21.719Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: There was a question from Dmitri about how we're implementing challenges so Todd this was the initial question you had with this is freshly discussed in the group on you know how challenges and domains are being implemented there was disagreement on where the API endpoint should go there was one suggestion or there was a suggestion.
[2022-10-25T19:30:27.553Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Bring up the diagram here.
[2022-10-25T19:31:01.266Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So there was a suggestion that the the challenge creation and point so the thing that like creates challenges and tracks challenges might need to go on the verifier controller which is this diamond nor the app we're changing that to control our verifier controller or it needs to go on the verifier service the argument for putting on on the app is hey challenges our business logic.
[2022-10-25T19:31:01.617Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  in that's where they really should go.
[2022-10-25T19:31:16.034Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	/s/controller/coordinator/g
[2022-10-25T19:31:32.429Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um versus they should go on the verifier service because it's something that's common to many different applications and so it should be kind of this generalized thing and I believe we went kind of back and forth on that and didn't really get to a resolution so let's go ahead and thank you Joe coordinator let's go ahead and pick up.
[2022-10-25T19:31:32.817Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  up that discussion.
[2022-10-25T19:31:39.929Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead only.
[2022-10-25T19:32:08.872Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah another thing I would add to the argument for putting this on the verifier services that challenges in particular are there are a number of ways to get checking for Replay MAX wrong especially in Partition systems are very common in back in implementations these days and so you want to make sure that the system that's checking the proof makes.
[2022-10-25T19:32:09.305Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: We also checks.
[2022-10-25T19:32:40.127Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Challenge hasn't been reused or tracks how many reuses how many times the challenge challenge has been reused and so keeping that that tightly coupled to where the verification is happening makes it less likely for mistakes to be made and it makes it easier on people who are writing applications if you give them this feature for them to to use as you know obviously any application can implement.
[2022-10-25T19:32:40.424Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  isn't this feature.
[2022-10-25T19:32:52.520Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to say how much a challenge is used/reused feels like business rules and should be specified by the coordinator.
[2022-10-25T19:32:54.841Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: However they want to but providing it in the service because it's very commonly needed for effectively always needed for any kind of authentication I think that's very valuable.
[2022-10-25T19:33:08.512Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	present+
[2022-10-25T19:33:41.600Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah I think just that echo my no time last time is it sounds like these are primarily business rules validating how this challenge is to be used or maintained and it seems like it's very strange for the verifier to Outsource their relationship with the holder through the verifier so.
[2022-10-25T19:33:41.948Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  it seems like a.
[2022-10-25T19:34:01.203Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Using the verifier to manage the state's for which you as a issuer I'm sorry verifier coordinator have to maintain anyway so it feels like a weird layer violation to me still.
[2022-10-25T19:34:27.214Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So a couple of points in response to that I'll try to talk slowly seat since I see you're typing on you so a couple of things were in there the the first was that it feels strange to verify to Outsource the relationship to the verifier service I don't feel that way I think we're you know we're whenever a holder provides a presentation to the coordinator they turn around and Outsource it to.
[2022-10-25T19:34:27.538Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  the verifier.
[2022-10-25T19:34:58.327Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: That helps them it gives them a tool to help them verify presentations and part of verifying a presentation that has a proof on it is making sure that the challenge is either not reused or not reused a number of times that would come into conflict with business rules and so the way I see it is you can make a call to this other system to manage your challenge your challenge state for you and that system can report back to you when you.
[2022-10-25T19:34:58.757Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  ask it to verify.
[2022-10-25T19:35:29.871Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: And how many times that challenge has been reused and then it's a business decision to whether or not to reject that presentation based on the number of times the challenge has been reused and I would also say that there was a second point in there that Joe made about having to manage the state anyway I don't think you have to manage the state anyway if you have a call on the verifier service to generate a challenge then your application can make that call get a challenge and put it in a verifiable.
[2022-10-25T19:35:56.248Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ if you check any rules, you should to check them all
[2022-10-25T19:36:03.818Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Into the holder the holder turns around and sends the presentation back which they then the coordinator then sends to the verifier service and the rare fire service reports back whether or not that challenge has been reused and it creates a clean abstraction boundary on Challenger use where the actual coordinator app doesn't care what the challenges are so they don't have to maintain that state they just want to know whether or not a challenge has been reused and is how it is a timely challenge.
[2022-10-25T19:36:10.747Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Okay I'm by the way having a kick so it's piling up over there.
[2022-10-25T19:36:12.545Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack joe
[2022-10-25T19:36:13.785Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack joe
[2022-10-25T19:36:14.751Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I'm having a I'm having a hard time switching windows.
[2022-10-25T19:36:45.303Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Well I agree that their business rules so I think we're on the same page there I think the my challenge is that the business rules should be driven by the coordinator and so it's a coordinator the one driving this I don't understand how unless the coordinator is giving VCS to everyone who shows up whatsoever unless they're doing that then they are going to have to manage State between the current session and.
[2022-10-25T19:36:45.993Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Whoever they think the current session is associated.
[2022-10-25T19:36:58.709Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So that's why I'm saying they have to manage State unless they're letting everyone through and therefore there are no business rules which is itself a business rule and hence I think they are managing State no matter what.
[2022-10-25T19:37:09.363Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-10-25T19:37:36.231Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: If no one else is on the Queue managing State I think in that statement is a little too overly broad there will be services that won't manage State generally at all but there will other there will also be applications services that do manage state but I think specifically we're talking here about the challenge State and I think with what I just described before they don't have to manage that state.
[2022-10-25T19:37:36.650Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  eight and managing that state.
[2022-10-25T19:37:52.365Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ about atomicity
[2022-10-25T19:38:07.747Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: The a more challenging thing for them to do given the comments I made earlier about ensuring atomicity with the the proofs and whatever we can do to make it so that there's less state for any particular party to have to manage and get right and get right around security I think is of Great Value to the applications that are looking to Outsource features.
[2022-10-25T19:38:08.149Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  you know to put to you.
[2022-10-25T19:38:17.905Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: A of or service at least to provide common features to get them to help them issue and verify feces.
[2022-10-25T19:38:29.879Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah I work necklace others involvement.
[2022-10-25T19:38:29.998Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Joe and I and we're going to take a pause because this is just going back and forth between Joe and Dave any yeah.
[2022-10-25T19:39:01.004Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Not sure why the coordinator managing challenge state would deny atomicity if the verifier is going to check that which is a different debate then there's no reason that the coordinator can't provide that information at the same point so you can have an atomic check all of the business validation rules are expected to be in some notion Atomic right either you pass the.
[2022-10-25T19:39:01.304Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  business rules or you.
[2022-10-25T19:39:12.294Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Out and in some cases I guess you could construct Spectrum but nobody's really talk about modeling anything like that.
[2022-10-25T19:39:15.200Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: But with that I agree we should wrap up.
[2022-10-25T19:39:15.901Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2022-10-25T19:39:21.037Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Dimitri go ahead.
[2022-10-25T19:39:21.512Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack joe
[2022-10-25T19:39:22.750Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack dmitri
[2022-10-25T19:39:53.847Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Well I want to give the impression that Joe and Dave are the only ones getting with this issue like I also care very strongly about this issue it's calm about as a result of implementation implementation experience both on my end and on digital bazaars I see that almost every single implementer is will need a challenge management mechanism like this and so there's no reason not to put it in this bag because the same for all.
[2022-10-25T19:39:54.538Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Like all use cases.
[2022-10-25T19:40:17.997Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Are there other implementers on the call that are need or believe they need a generalized challenge management mechanism in the API or are there anyone is there anyone on the call that's like I definitely do not.
[2022-10-25T19:40:18.269Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's a good idea.
[2022-10-25T19:41:09.014Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right so where do we go from here there doesn't seem to be a lot of feedback implementers can decide to implement this how are they feel like you know they can implement it wherever they want to I guess the question is Joe would you object to this end point being defined but.
[2022-10-25T19:41:09.388Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  mean like not.
[2022-10-25T19:41:16.636Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It goes I don't know if that's like it could go on the controller it could go on the service I'm trying to figure.
[2022-10-25T19:41:49.732Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: As I'm going to be I'm gonna do what Chris round did for like five years and keep calling it verifiable claims and thank you Joe coordinator it could go on the coordinator it could go on the service well I guess would anyone object if we defined what this API looks like and where it goes we kind of leave that vague for now.
[2022-10-25T19:41:55.555Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I'd actually go the other way I mean I think if it's on the coordinator I have a different opinion about it.
[2022-10-25T19:42:00.414Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: My opinion is coordinators where it belongs it shouldn't be on the service.
[2022-10-25T19:42:04.723Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Where is Dave it makes sense on the service.
[2022-10-25T19:42:12.295Z]	<Dave_Longley>	q-
[2022-10-25T19:42:15.650Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah and we've got it's a gotcha yeah and I think we've got disagreement on that so hold on so do we have consensus that like this is a useful thing to have it's just we're disagreeing on does it go on the coordinator or does it go in the service.
[2022-10-25T19:42:17.779Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Well the the.
[2022-10-25T19:42:29.145Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: It's it is a useful function to Define for people to implement it's not clear that it needs to be exposed as a service to be provided by anybody.
[2022-10-25T19:42:35.590Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Right well we're talking about our interfaces between different services.
[2022-10-25T19:42:44.543Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-10-25T19:42:45.587Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay Dave you're on the queue.
[2022-10-25T19:42:51.985Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I went on the Queue to say I think it because of the atomicity issues it definitely belongs in the verifier service.
[2022-10-25T19:42:57.279Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	I agree. (that it belongs on verifier service)
[2022-10-25T19:42:58.268Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: But that's all.
[2022-10-25T19:43:07.229Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: In the meter you're saying it belongs on the verifier Service as well or the coordinator.
[2022-10-25T19:43:35.438Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Joe would I guess that's the I'm wondering I'm trying to avoid asking the same question we Define this and not say where it goes or you're safe it's defined we have to specify or where it goes and it has to be on the controller.
[2022-10-25T19:43:42.319Z]	<Dave_Longley>	coordinator :)
[2022-10-25T19:43:52.981Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	*shakes fist at his own brain*
[2022-10-25T19:43:53.209Z]	<Dave_Longley>	s/controller/coordinator
[2022-10-25T19:43:53.914Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Well I'm saying specifying it without specifying where it goes I think would not help us if if we can specify it more clearly that may help get more feedback about this issue.
[2022-10-25T19:44:01.223Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Sorry I missed the last thing you said the last couple of words.
[2022-10-25T19:44:12.629Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: If we explain that this this is something that's on the service and this is the API and this is the response like I don't think that's written up in a way that we can be concrete about spec text.
[2022-10-25T19:44:17.263Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: And maybe if we have spec text then we can get better engagement on the issue.
[2022-10-25T19:44:29.649Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So you're saying you're saying Bray's a PR to put this on the server surf service and then we'll discuss it then okay all right.
[2022-10-25T19:44:36.550Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I mean I know that's putting me in a distant bed just this advantageous state if I just want to oppose this but that's not my point my point is we need better conversation.
[2022-10-25T19:44:59.565Z]	<Dave_Longley>	+1 to Joe being open and if he can convince me it's a terrible idea i won't support it :)
[2022-10-25T19:45:06.364Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay alright thank you for being open to that Joe noted that we that having a PR might help move things forward next steps are to raise a PR to place the endpoint on the verifier service understanding that there is no.
[2022-10-25T19:45:35.902Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: On strong consensus on placing it are the pr is just being raised so we can have a detailed conversation okay great good so at least we got ourselves to writing a PR Mark that ready for PR.
[2022-10-25T19:45:53.495Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Test for issue with default issuer provided
[2022-10-25T19:45:55.880Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And yep again thank you Joe for being open to at least trying it out in a PR and seeing seeing where the discussion takes us next item up is test for issue with default issuer provided.
[2022-10-25T19:45:58.134Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/274
[2022-10-25T19:46:34.971Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so or is saying there should be a test for to issue a credential with the default issue or provided this was when we were actually providing who the issue should be for the end point I don't think we do that anymore I think we assume the endpoints have issuers pre-configured on them.
[2022-10-25T19:46:42.182Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's arguable that the tests are done elsewhere.
[2022-10-25T19:46:51.805Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: What do we want to do with this issue I I forget are you allowed to specify the issuer.
[2022-10-25T19:46:56.229Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead only.
[2022-10-25T19:47:24.125Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I don't know if we ever came to a decision here but the direction we had it in was that issuer instances would already have the issuer field specified and and then what was open to discussion was whether it was okay to include an issuer field when submitting something and it had to match what was configured otherwise it.
[2022-10-25T19:47:24.467Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  would produce an error.
[2022-10-25T19:47:33.831Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Or if we should just produce an error if you provide anything at all no matter whether it passes the weather whether it matches or not.
[2022-10-25T19:47:39.643Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Don't know if we ever decided between those two options.
[2022-10-25T19:47:48.491Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Well the other option is that you could people didn't have to follow that model they could just.
[2022-10-25T19:47:53.291Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Switch up the issuer as they felt.
[2022-10-25T19:48:20.355Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah that that sure we could document that but that is just I think that's a foot gun that's it doesn't it doesn't have any value because the whatever keys or capabilities to use keys are configured with the issuing instance the controller of those keys doesn't change so if you go change whatever the issue is.
[2022-10-25T19:48:28.094Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: You're probably just going to end up with something that's broken and so we should probably make it so that you can't do that.
[2022-10-25T19:48:50.233Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I think really the the other point I'll make here is the only reason we allowed we originally allowed people to say what the issue or was was when we were still building this API around a test Suite instead of around actual use cases.
[2022-10-25T19:49:13.988Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So we wanted it to be easy to just hit the same instance and give it all the parameters you wanted and just assume that it has access to all the keys that it could possibly need or you know whatever test keys were built with the sweet test Suite all that kind of stuff but that doesn't match real-world use cases for it.
[2022-10-25T19:49:41.319Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So yeah so we're we were creating the VC API to achieve a test Suite not to actually operate on these cases okay any other thoughts on this should we allow people to include a nature option in say it must be ignored do we stay silent on it do we say allowing the specification of issue or is a foot gun don't do it.
[2022-10-25T19:49:49.520Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	+1 to footgun argument.
[2022-10-25T19:49:50.102Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Brian.
[2022-10-25T19:49:53.232Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian_Richter: Yeah I'm just looking at the traceability.
[2022-10-25T19:49:58.816Z]	<Transcriber>	Brian_Richter: What they're doing and it looks like they've removed it I think that's a reading around.
[2022-10-25T19:50:10.531Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay that's interesting is there anyone from Trace here well mood let's see what mood Paul Todd I don't know how often you guys are on the trace calls.
[2022-10-25T19:50:16.338Z]	<Transcriber>	PaulDietrich_GS1: I've been on mono but I'm not following that issue that carefully.
[2022-10-25T19:50:44.824Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay all right thanks um how about this let's The Proposal is to disallow the setting of issuer of options that issuer if it is included is ignored do we want to throw an error just excellent.
[2022-10-25T19:50:45.058Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  we ignore.
[2022-10-25T19:50:48.103Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Probably throw in there.
[2022-10-25T19:51:15.791Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah we should throw an error and I don't know if it's options that issuer this might I don't remember where this might be that you're supposed to omit it from the VC that front or from the credential that you were submitting yep so it's not in the options field you would just admitted it in the credential that you're submitting and I do think it would be a lot easier for systems to just have a schema that looks for that a Json schema for example rather than Andrew.
[2022-10-25T19:51:21.946Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Having to go look up things and and check the value.
[2022-10-25T19:51:34.865Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right so why don't understand how credential how would you match against the it has to match the issue or that you have.
[2022-10-25T19:51:58.964Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: It's probably the case that most implementations will have that information in memory so it could check that immediately but I don't want to make assumptions about maybe fancy ways people could optimize that away so it's probably better to just make it so that you are not allowed to submit to include that field.
[2022-10-25T19:52:02.705Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It included so if you set the issuer field.
[2022-10-25T19:52:05.019Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah you should get an error.
[2022-10-25T19:52:34.482Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay this is a trick to to any value it is assumed that the issuer in point will fill that value in the issuer and point will fill that value in when it is issuing well luckily there is that what we're.
[2022-10-25T19:52:55.989Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We need to make sure that this won't conflict with what the phrase bility ABI is doing well.
[2022-10-25T19:53:20.533Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: If there are no objections we should raise a PR that states that an error must be thrown if issuer is set calling the.
[2022-10-25T19:53:26.907Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: A in the points.
[2022-10-25T19:54:05.702Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That an air Rays appear that states that in there must be thrown if you sure if and chilled on the issuer calling nature and point.
[2022-10-25T19:54:10.532Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-10-25T19:54:25.442Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so this is this ready for PR is there anyone on the Queue that would disagree with this any objections basically raising an error if you try to set the issuer it's the endpoint that should set the issuer and it should be configured to set the proper value there.
[2022-10-25T19:54:31.959Z]	<Transcriber>	PaulDietrich_GS1: Why does that mean this thing is not a verifiable credential or credential at all at that point.
[2022-10-25T19:54:39.758Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Not a it's not a verifiable credential at that point.
[2022-10-25T19:54:44.403Z]	<Transcriber>	PaulDietrich_GS1: Or even a credential according to the data model that has no issuer.
[2022-10-25T19:54:48.420Z]	<Transcriber>	PaulDietrich_GS1: That seems a little odd.
[2022-10-25T19:54:51.354Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah that's what I was trying to thing I don't know if we really don't know if we really.
[2022-10-25T19:55:01.709Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And this let's see what do we see what do we say about issuer a verifiable credential must have an issue or property we don't say anything about a credential.
[2022-10-25T19:55:19.343Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It sure if I was so determined to try so it's compliant to the spec right because we don't say a credential must have an issue or property.
[2022-10-25T19:55:29.784Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I mean you know I'm I'm spec lawyer in right now so it's technically true I don't know if that's a good thing or not.
[2022-10-25T19:55:36.691Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah I'm not seeing anything that says a credential has to have insured property.
[2022-10-25T19:55:40.055Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I need to I need to.
[2022-10-25T19:55:45.613Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: A credential doesn't need a proof at all but a verifiable credential does.
[2022-10-25T19:55:57.302Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Are you saying that in support of the you don't really need an issuer on a credential until it's verifiable.
[2022-10-25T19:56:02.604Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Correct because issuers on the proof.
[2022-10-25T19:56:17.496Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Is there is a state and there are use cases or we could say hey this is a credential not a verifiable credential it's just we haven't found many use cases where formalizing that was important.
[2022-10-25T19:56:30.707Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Are we saying sorry.
[2022-10-25T19:56:35.124Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That's right and what you're sending to the issuer endpoint is a credential it's not a verify it's not a verifiable credential until it's issued so I think the logic hangs together Paul does that well I was going to ask Paul if that worked for him and then we'll go to you Ted.
[2022-10-25T19:56:45.620Z]	<Transcriber>	PaulDietrich_GS1: Yeah that's fine by me I think as long as it's a credential and still meets the specification that it's fine to say that that field can't be there.
[2022-10-25T19:56:52.510Z]	<Transcriber>	PaulDietrich_GS1: Don't know if it says approved field can't be there but that kind of would go along with this I would think.
[2022-10-25T19:56:57.535Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I'm also not sure if we have the type updated if we defined a tight for a credential.
[2022-10-25T19:57:03.259Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: As opposed to type for a verifiable credential which I'm sure we have defined in the context.
[2022-10-25T19:57:07.811Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Pl we don't attend you were going to mention.
[2022-10-25T19:57:21.936Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Yeah I think we did at some point somewhere Define credential differently than verifiable credential yes but my speaking up was are we saying that an issuer endpoint.
[2022-10-25T19:57:28.226Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Can only serve verifiable credentials from a single issuer.
[2022-10-25T19:57:30.667Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Sort of thinking of.
[2022-10-25T19:57:35.481Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We're saying an instance.
[2022-10-25T19:57:45.532Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Don't make multiple entities behind the thing right and if you want to request that the VC that you're going to get you from one of those issuers that this endpoint is handling.
[2022-10-25T19:57:59.316Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's an important question I just noted that we're two minutes overtime and we should answer that at some point Dave go ahead.
[2022-10-25T19:58:25.520Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah real quick I think you have different instances different endpoints you would hit to get different issuers but in that light I think we just all so I also just realized the use case at this is problematic for which is where you want to put use the same issuer and put two different proofs on the same VC and so we might not want to do this we might want to say you have to make sure that the issuer field matches and that's a good that is a use case where.
[2022-10-25T19:58:25.961Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  you sign with signature type A create proof.
[2022-10-25T19:58:31.663Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: And then you turn around and send the thing back to get to another place to get proofed IB.
[2022-10-25T19:58:49.718Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We're at a time like this we need to pick this up next week and that's it for the call today thanks everyone for the good conversation will chat again next week ciao.

