Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-01-11-vcapi/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-01-11-vcapi/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC API Task Force Transcript for 2022-01-11

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Jan/0089.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions and Reintroductions
  2. Relevant Community Updates
  3. Verifiable Credential Refresh 2021
  4. Issuer Automation Pull Request
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny, Orie Steele, Markus Sabadello, Mike Varley, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Manu Sporny, Justin Richer, Mike Prorock, Markus Sabadello, 
  Tobias Looker, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Joe Andrieu, Rolson Quadras, 
  Juan Caballero, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), brentz, Eric Schuh, Phil L (P1), Adrian 
  Gropper, Orie Steele, Kerri Lemoie, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau Jr 
  (via iPhone), Dmitri Zagidulin, James Chartrand, Phil (T3), Brian 
  Richter

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Manu Sporny:  Alright welcome everyone to the VC API call this is 
  January 11th 2022.
Manu Sporny:  We are trying auto-transcription today, we'll see 
  how it does it typically does a terrible job -- but you know -- 
  let's just give it a shot.
Manu Sporny:  Our agenda for today was sent out last Sunday.
Manu Sporny:  On the agenda today we just have agenda review, 
  which is this, some introductions for anyone that's needed to 
  call any relevant Community updates.
Manu Sporny:  I'll do a quick overview of verifiable credential 
  refresh 2021, new spec that uses VC API -- not meant to be a 
  debate just kind of like a heads up kind of thing. We'll then 
  talk about then some pull requests -- there's a workflow 
  automation request that I put in that Orie has been heavily 
  engaged in, and that Marcus has been heavily engaged in. Thanks 
  for being here Marcus, I know it's late your time -- so we will 
  talk about that and then do issue processing with any time that's 
  left over.
Manu Sporny:  Any updates that folks would want to make to the 
  agenda.
Manu Sporny:  Okay, then we'll go with that agenda.
Manu Sporny:  For those of you that might have missed it; Chrome 
  97 was just released 7 days ago and it seems to be semi-busted 
  with its audio. You may need to use Firefox or Safari or the 
  Jitsi App or dial-in or chromium version before 97 -- all this 
  should work, Chrome 97 is busted.
<tobias_looker> Thanks manu :) was scratching my head why audio 
  wasn't working

Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions

Manu Sporny:  Let's do introductions and reintroductions, anyone 
  new to call? Anyone that wants to provide a reintroduction or has 
  anything changed with you?, or you just want to reintroduce 
  yourself to the group.
Manu Sporny:  Alright if there's no one that wants to re-intro 
  themselves, let's move on

Topic: Relevant Community Updates

Manu Sporny:  We will go on with the rest of the agenda. Next 
  topic up is relevant Community updates.
<juan_caballero_(spruce)> ðŸ’ªðŸŒ²
Manu Sporny:  The only Community update I have is that, I mean, 
  it's no secret the DHS SVIP program is going to run a set of 
  interoperability tests throughout this year. We expect that some 
  of that work is going to happen in this group. This is an open 
  invitation for anyone to participate -- we're really trying hard 
  to do all that work out in the open, in public, and so the 
  interop tests, which will be public, they'll be some of them 
  maybe working elsewhere, but they're meant to be set up so anyone 
  can participate. So you do not have to be in the DHS SVIP program 
  to participate in the interop tests. Spruce is a great example of 
  a company that was not an SVIP company that still went and 
  demonstrated interop amongst a lot of the test suites.
Mike Prorock:  We will likely be running the supply chain and 
  traceability side over in the trace work item, but you know, 
  there's overlap with apis here.
Mike Prorock:  Would love to it if other vendors would like to 
  pass those tests. Happy to help you get pointed in the right 
  direction on that stuff.
Manu Sporny:  Awesome, great thanks Mike I do think it would be 
  super interesting if companies that have nothing to do with 
  traceability were put into that test to see how far you get.
Mike Prorock:  Fantastic, which is why I was bringing it up on 
  this call.
Manu Sporny:  Okay, great, so I'm sure we'll see vendors 
  volunteering to be subjected to things they've never seen before 
  and seeing if they interop -- that's the best kind of interop.
Manu Sporny:  Any other relevant Community updates?
Manu Sporny:  Or wishes for this year?
<adrian_gropper> Don't ask me that :)
Manu Sporny:  Surely, you guys want something to happen this year 
  right.
Mike Prorock: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop
<orie> I wish for the W3C to become a Legal Entity.
Manu Sporny:  Laughing at Adrian and Orie's comments.
Joe Andrieu:  My sincere wishes for the Jitsi audio to work.
Manu Sporny:  Your wish and mine, my friend.
<mprorock> ROFL @orie
Mike Prorock:  Joe, it worked!?
Joe Andrieu:  How did it work!?
Mike Prorock:  I heard your voice.
<kerri_lemoie> :P
Manu Sporny:  We're one-for-one so far this year on wishes 
  granted for this year!
Manu Sporny:  Ok, the next up is Verifiable Credential Refresh.

Topic: Verifiable Credential Refresh 2021

Manu Sporny:  Here is a link to that spec.
Manu Sporny: https://digitalbazaar.github.io/vc-refresh-2021/
Manu Sporny:  Here's a spec for verifiable credential refresh 
  that we sent out sent out last year. We're proposing soon as a 
  CCG work item. We're saying we'd like it to become one we do need 
  a co-sponsor on it, so if any of you are interested in being a 
  co-sponsor of the work item, that would be greatly appreciated.
Manu Sporny:  The purpose of this spec is basically to refresh 
  your VC when it's about to expire, with holder consent.
Manu Sporny:  The Assumption here is that you have holder, you 
  have done some kind of holder interaction that's like do you want 
  us to refresh this credential -- renew this credentialing, its 
  expiring, and the person's clicks okay. They say "yeah I want 
  that". This is being applied to the DHS SVIP Permanent Resident 
  Card use case. That's a high level.
Orie Steele:  I've been following this work for sometime; I think 
  it's really awesome work. I guess it's a trend that I'm noticing, 
  as there's revocation lists, now credential refresh stuff, 
  there's the VP request spec, and this call is the VC API. So, I 
  guess my main question is what are their assets of the 
  specification that are specific to the VC API, and if so why is 
  the specification need to be in a separate place or another way 
  of thinking about it might be like -- it is there is it supposed 
  to be better handled in the VP request spec?
Orie Steele:  Different versions of this but I think folks 
  attending this call, it becomes really hard to tell what this 
  call is about when all of the work is split across so many 
  different smaller specifications of the CCG. So, this seems like 
  a risk to some degree if we continue to do that in the future. I 
  think the work is very valuable regardless of where it happens, 
  I'm just trying to get a sense as to what your thoughts are 
  regarding the VC API call, which were on today, and its 
  relationship to this work.
<mprorock> Follow on, honestly should we note on some of these 
  things that they might be intended to merge into main VC  API 
  spec/WG?
Manu Sporny:  Yeah excellent question. Let me go to the Q, I 
  don't want to jump in front of folks. I will answer that when the 
  queue gets to me.
Mike Prorock:  I have kind of a follow on note that was in the 
  chat.
Tobias Looker:  This appears to be a data model extension spec, 
  and a protocol definition spec.
Tobias Looker:  What is the relationship, can we move some of 
  this stuff into the main VC Data Model spec, how would that be 
  accommodated.
Tobias Looker:  Is this mean to function more as a registry for 
  all the refresh specs?
Manu Sporny:  Also, excellent question, Tobias -- I promise I 
  will answer all those things when it gets to my point in the 
  queue. Joe, you're up next.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah, I just want to share my my sense of this. 
  From the beginning is at the VC API was about harmonizing 
  different work different people are doing in different places. 
  Some of which had already emerged as their own specs on their 
  own, so I'm supportive of building something that's harmonizing 
  rather than a single monolithic API that we have to fight over 
  every little detail so.
<orie> Agree with you Joe.
Manu Sporny:  Great thanks Joe, that does go a bit to answering 
  the questions asked so far.
Adrian Gropper:  Shouldn't we wait to do this work until after we 
  do Authorization? Perhaps Justin can weigh in.
<mprorock> no.
Manu Sporny:  Alright thanks Adrian Justin do you want to respond 
  to that.
Justin Richer:  Yeah, sure, I'll respond -- No.
Justin Richer:  GNAP is fundamentally about getting an artifact 
  that gives you access to apis.
Justin Richer:  So, refreshing a credential could both be an API 
  that is protected, but as the group decided months ago that is 
  not something that this group wants to think about right now for 
  reasons I disagree with, but have been discussed another major 
  aspect is that this is the kind of thing that could provide input 
  to a GNAP authorization server, what as it's making its 
  authorization decision and that's where I see the real value of 
  connecting these two types of protocols... but it's not really an 
  overlap in that case either, so from what little I understand, 
  this is about VC refresh, not authorization.
Justin Richer:  I don't believe that there is any type of 
  overlap.
Justin Richer:  Unless I'm missing something.
Manu Sporny:  I don't think you're missing anything, Justin, my 
  read is the same as yours. Let me try and quickly answer folks 
  questions -- first, why a different spec the VC data model?
Manu Sporny:  Sorry did not have this link ready -- finding it -- 
  there it is: https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/#refreshing
Manu Sporny:  We contemplated something that goes in 
  refreshService at like above... but we never defined what it was. 
  There is a data model that goes along with it and almost 
  certainly a protocol that goes along with it. So we always needed 
  somewhere to define a data model and protocol for refresh. There 
  will probably be other types of refresh services out there and 
  they may be different specs. It's a bit too early to tell but 
  having one like gigantic spec that handles all refresh across the 
  entire VC ecosystem is that monolithic approach that Joe 
  mentioned -- that might not be a good strategy, so we're trying 
  to define at least a data model and then how the data model is 
  going to use a protocol. So that's what this new spec does for 
  refresh.
Manu Sporny:  This spec defines a data model, a way of doing 
  manual refresh, and automatic refresh. The language is kinda 
  wrong here... we want mediated and unmediated refresh, really. 
  Automated refresh happens automatically, is completely 
  machine-driven. Mediated expects a web browser to appear in the 
  process where an individual human being participates.
Manu Sporny:  That can be done in a fully automated fashion 
  presuming a that the holder has consented to doing that kind of 
  thing. We've got data model -- that's one of the purposes of the 
  specification, and then the other one is the defining a protocol, 
  at what we've tried to do is reuse the VC API entirely. There's a 
  different PR that we'll talk about later in the call that does 
  that, but what we're trying to do here is to outline a protocol 
  here that really just defers almost everything to the VC API. 
  What we're saying is we would like the data model to express 
  certain things that let you use the vanilla VC API to do all the 
  refreshing, and we give an example of what that back-and-forth 
  might look like here in the examples in a four step process with 
  examples.
Manu Sporny:   It's meant to map to the VC API directly.
Manu Sporny:   So, that's why its not separate specs. If we were 
  to take this refresh data model and put it into the VC API spec, 
  that might be a bit weird because the VC API isn't really about 
  internal VC Data Model specifics.
Manu Sporny:  Some people might disagree, but it might be weird 
  to put the refresh spec into the VC API because that presumes 
  that we were solving solving refresh for everything and that's 
  probably not the case.
Manu Sporny:  We allow for multiple data models and multiple 
  protocols for refresh because some people might not use VC API to 
  do refresh in the future. Perhaps some sort of bluetooth refresh 
  mechanism will come out, and that's definitely not going to use 
  VC API over HTTP.
Manu Sporny:  I hope that answered everyone's questions, let me 
  know if I missed something.
Markus Sabadello:  This makes a lot of sense to me, the way it is 
  modular, it's basically the same pattern as the Data Integrity 
  work, proofs, and other parts of the VC Data Model. VC Data Model 
  provides the central extension points, and extensions are in 
  other specifications.
<orie> exactly markus... but this is the first that I am aware 
  that depends on VC API?
Mike Prorock:  That's similar to what Markus was saying, I mean 
  this makes total sense, I guess my question is more around the 
  long-term path for this. It's more about the land between the 
  data model extensions and protocol... whats the outbound path 
  here?
<orie> StatusList depends of VC Data Model, this appears to 
  depend on VC Data Model and VC API Draft?
Mike Prorock:  How does this go into the VC working group? It 
  feels like the data model stuff should almost move over to the 
  data model proper right from the start, and then the protocol 
  might be better incubated here and then standardized elsewhere.
Mike Prorock:  What are you thinking there from a standardization 
  path standpoint?
Orie Steele:  So I just wanted to be clear, my understanding of 
  the the refresh is that it takes a concrete dependency on the VC 
  data model which is similar to the status list spec. But this is 
  the first one that depends on VC Data Model and VC API, right?
<mprorock> Traceability work does the same thing.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah, aside from Traceability, I don't know of 
  any... but that was deliberate... we need to start standardizing 
  these protocols.
<orie> There were objections when we did this, with 
  Traceability... I guess the door is open now?
Manu Sporny:  We are starting to signal pretty strongly to W3C 
  that we have done data model, we're doing data integrity, and now 
  we have to do protocol. So, it's to apply a kind of 
  standardization pressure on W3C proper... these things are coming 
  down the pipeline. We were forced to only do data model at W3C in 
  the beginning, but we've established work at W3C now... we're 
  going to do protocol next, the company objecting to that work has 
  now joined us, so it might be easier.
Manu Sporny:  Status list spec is interesting, we have a 
  normative dependency on VC Data Model, but we did normatively 
  depend on a protocol spec -- HTTP, it just so happened that that 
  was done and we could just use it.
<orie> I was limiting my criticism to drafts that depend on 
  drafts... HTTP and W3C VC Data Model are standards... but yes, 
  answered.
Manu Sporny:  Again, I'm just proposing a possible path forward. 
  We have a VC Data Model standard, we have a VCWG, we are doing 
  Data Integrity next, once that's done, it's protocol... There is 
  a pipeline here and we're just filling the pipeline.
Manu Sporny:  In the next rechartering as a non-normative work 
  item and then when we recharter again which we can do within a 
  year right I mean we can change your mind if things go quickly 
  with the data Integrity stuff we can recharter and then take on 
  the VC API work, and possibly things that depend on it (like 
  status list, refresh, etc.).
Mike Prorock:  Yeah.
Mike Prorock:  Make total sense. We know that protocol caused 
  consternation in the past at W3C, so cautious for that reason.
Manu Sporny:  We've won at least one of the formal objectors over 
  since that point in time.
Mike Prorock: +1
<orie> I would never assume someone won't formally object.
<orie> ever.
<orie> in fact, start assuming they will.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah, agree, people are still going to formally 
  object over something.
Manu Sporny:  Any other questions on that before we move on?

Topic: Issuer Automation Pull Request

Manu Sporny:  This PR was raised as a non-normative basis for the 
  credential refresh spec.
Manu Sporny:  Basically, this PR is about issuing through 
  automation workflows... it says it's highly experimental, just a 
  simple four-step back and forth protocol, gives examples w/o 
  adding normative text.
Manu Sporny:  Orie, you've provided a bunch of good 
  input/feedback, so thanks a ton for that. Could you please take 
  us through your feedback?
Orie Steele:  Basically the original objection was that the PR 
  was referring to an "interact" primitive, which was assumed to be 
  part of the VP request spec, which is a assumed (I think) 
  dependency of the VC API as it stands today, so let me share that 
  PR...
Orie Steele: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vp-request-spec/pull/13
Orie Steele:  This is the change request I asked for -- define 
  "interact" in VPR spec... and you did that in this PR.
Orie Steele:  This is where it belongs and now you're now 
  providing an example in the VC API spec on how to use this 
  feature.
Orie Steele:  So we're now doing a second version of that, and if 
  you're clever with using it, you can use it to present 
  credentials from a holder to a verifier. Now this new pull 
  request on the VC API is doing the same thing, except that 
  there's this extra interact feature, which you can use and if you 
  want to learn more about it you can go read the VP request spec.
Orie Steele:  We had no definition, and now we're adding a thing 
  that has a definition, and it doesn't preclude the existing flows 
  that we have. I do think it fails to understand why there's 
  existing flows were requested in first place, but that's not a 
  reason to hold off the pull request. We can continue to work on 
  that.
Orie Steele:  So I just I'm trying to connect all the dots for 
  folks, to understand everything you have to go read a couple 
  other pull request to get the background information.
<orie> Is it compatible with GNAP?
<orie> can you use GNAP with "interact"?
<orie> these are good questions.
Manu Sporny:  Justin, I'm interested in your thoughts on 
  interact, because it was inspired by GNAP. Do you have any 
  high-level thoughts to start, or do you want some more time to 
  think about it since we just dumped this question on you.
Justin Richer:  I have not had a chance to read this in any depth 
  whatsoever, but I can say that this kind of pattern is exactly 
  the type of connection point we were talking about in the GNAP 
  process. The authorization server is allowed to say: "ere's how I 
  can do the authorization in the client to negotiate ways to 
  interact with the end-user", and that's what the interact block 
  is all about so when the client shows up and it says that I want 
  to talk to the AS -- these are the ways that I can interact with.
Justin Richer:  With the end-user if you need to, the AS can come 
  back and say: "Yes, this is how I will support that interaction 
  because I need to get in touch with the user somehow now". I'm 
  not convinced from just reading what's on the screen here that 
  this is actually doing the same thing, so I don't know if it's 
  the right application of that.
Justin Richer:  We're not doing the same kind of negotiation, I 
  believe, here.
Justin Richer:  We're not doing the same kind of delegation.
Justin Richer:  This is just kind of access.
Justin Richer:  So, I don't think it's quite the same thing but 
  again I have not had a chance to read through this in any depth, 
  so I'm not really qualified to speak on what was meant here.
Justin Richer:  Maybe Dimitri can fill that in, though?
Justin Richer:  I think he understands both sides a little bit 
  better.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Dimitri.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So yeah, the interactive section was 
  definitely inspired by GNAP.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It's both true that this is not trying to 
  replace GNAP.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  This is more this whole mediated and 
  unmediated flows is trying to model.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Iterative, between client server that has to 
  do with prerequisites on the server side.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So client asking: "Please issue me this 
  credential or please renew this credential", and the server 
  saying: "In order to do that, I need the following things and 
  here's where you can submit them."
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That's what the "interact" block is doing.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So, it's inspired by GNAP, not trying to 
  compete with it.
Justin Richer:  Can I respond to that?
Manu Sporny:  Please.
Justin Richer:  Thank you, I realize I'm jumping the queue my 
  apologies.
Justin Richer:  Okay, so that does make more sense now.
Justin Richer:  As is usually the case, in systems design when 
  you see things that are in inspired and similar, it does start to 
  beg the question: "Is there a common abstraction or, 
  cross-reference, that could even be used here?"
Justin Richer:  So, Dimitri, I'm actually going to request invite 
  you to present at the GNAP interim meeting next week, if you're 
  at all available? I can give you 20 minutes or so to very roughly 
  present this idea to the GNAP working group and cuz I think it's 
  interesting.
Justin Richer:  I do think this pattern is interesting, and I 
  think that might be something that the networking group would 
  like to take a look at if you're available.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I would love to, yeah, let's connect and cross 
  pollinate the idea.
Manu Sporny:  Awesome, this is exactly it is exactly the type of 
  feedback and conversation I was hoping would happen. Justin, we 
  just want to make sure that if we're using "interact" here, it 
  doesn't screw things up with GNAP. If it's going to send people 
  down the wrong path, or a misunderstanding, we will rename it if 
  it turns out this is a bad idea. We're trying it out because we 
  think there's probably some kind of generic pattern here that's 
  interesting.
Justin Richer:  Yeah and I really do believe in the power of this 
  pattern, otherwise we wouldn't be building GNAP off of this. For 
  those unfamiliar with how works, this whole interaction section 
  is one of the key protocol differentiators (for GNAP).
Justin Richer:  Today, you have to sort of decide ahead of time 
  what your Grant type is and then you're kind of stuck with in 
  that process. In GNAP, this interact section that allows this 
  decision to be made at runtime where you don't have to know 
  everything ahead of time. I'm very much a fan of this pattern and 
  I would like these two groups actually try to figure out if there 
  is either commonality or as Manu said, we do need to be carefully 
  distinct from each other because if they're similar patterns.
Justin Richer:  We don't want people assuming that n extension 
  that gets written for VC API can just be dropped into a GNAP 
  negotiation.
<orie> See also 
  https://developer.box.com/guides/authentication/tokens/downscope/
<mprorock> you can downgrade tokens in oauth
<justin_richer> yes you can downscope in Oauth, I wrote that 
  section in the spec :)
Adrian Gropper:  Yes, so apologies for my inability to understand 
  the protocol work. I think I can help by basically saying what my 
  perspective is on this conversation. I'm interested from a 
  privacy perspective that every request falls to the authorization 
  server regardless of what authorization server is associated with 
  what domain whether it's the issuer  or the holder or something 
  else.
Adrian Gropper:  It sounds to me like we're planning to send 
  requests and this case refresh requests to the resource server, 
  the issuer as a resource server. It raises all sorts of issues in 
  my mind, I apologize if I'm getting it wrong cuz I'm too high 
  level for the discussion at hand, but that's what I'm trying to 
  get to.
<justin_richer> Details for the interim meeting next week: 
  https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/gnap/meetings/
<mprorock> so you want a central point of failure and control?
<orie> Room_641A
Manu Sporny:  We'll have time to talk about this -- this is all 
  new stuff, so I think everyone's going to have to get their mind 
  wrapped around it before we can have a productive discussion in 
  the group. This is just a heads up that this stuff is out there 
  and there is a PR.
Manu Sporny:  I heard Orie say that he's okay with the PR so far. 
  It would be good for other people to take a look at the multiple 
  PR's and see what they think about them. Remember this is all 
  experimental stuff so we're trying to be a bit faster about 
  moving these things in, but it would be good to get a couple more 
  reviews in before we pull it in. There were a few open questions 
  that Orie and Markus raised in the PR that might be good to put 
  out to the group.
Mike Prorock:  From a nerd perspective, I hate to say this, but I 
  kind of want to see a diagram and some plain English.
<orie> Lets volunteer Joe : )
<orie> he makes diagrams!
Manu Sporny: :Laughs: Joe's good work reduced to "He makes 
  diagrams."
Mike Prorock:  It's just a feeling a little bit in nebulous, and 
  a feeling a little bit like some of the language is just so in 
  the weeds.
Dmitri Zagidulin: @Mprorock: could I interest you in 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/245 ?
Mike Prorock:  And I kind of want it in there now, but it might 
  just be a room for improvement thing.
<dmitriz> it doesn't have diagram, but has step by step examples
Manu Sporny:  Yes, I can do a diagram, no problem, swim lanes, 
  got it.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah, that would be awesome.
Mike Prorock:  First glance I can't be the only programmer that's 
  been working on that work stuff for 20-plus years that's going to 
  look at this go: "Oh yeah, it might be useful for something 
  else."
Manu Sporny:  Agreed, it did cross my mind when I was writing the 
  PR and then I just sort of ran out of time. I can put a swimlane 
  diagram in the PR.
Mike Prorock: +1
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I just wanted to respond to Mike, could I 
  interest you in the write-up and VC API issue 245 -- no diagrams, 
  but it does have step-by-step JSON examples.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It differs from Manu's Proposal in like one 
  API endpoint, but same for the rest.
Orie Steele:  You can do whatever you want in the refresh spec 
  because it's not a CCG work item, it's under Digital Bazaar right 
  now, so you don't need any permission to update that document.
Manu Sporny:  That's true, thanks for the reminder, I had totally 
  forgotten about that.
Adrian Gropper:  A quick question, I saw a comment in the chat 
  about a single point of failure. I think it was a reference to 
  something I might have said and I'm curious what triggered that?
Mike Prorock:  Yeah, I did and I think Orie dropped one of the 
  many things I was thinking, which is a certain room in a building 
  that you could probably Wikipedia if you care to (central routing 
  point for all communication)... I always get very concerned when 
  I hear things like: "Oh, all of this stuff needs to route through 
  the authorization service."
Mike Prorock:  Snooping attack vector.
<orie> I get concerned anytime i hear choke point... some guys 
  like squeezing choke points.
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie
Adrian Gropper:  Well to the extent that we're concerned to align 
  with a zero trust architecture mandates, so you know when the 
  federal procurement. In general, I think it's very much worth 
  discussing the point that Mike brought up because in my opinion 
  one could look at your  architecture and say the problem is Zero 
  Trust Architecture. I'll just leave it at that, thank you.
<mprorock> off topic, but yes important
Manu Sporny:  I wanted to point out a couple of things, food for 
  thought, and then kickoff a discussion on any of them.
Manu Sporny:  I wanted to point out here what's being proposed in 
  the auto-refresh spec is that each workflow is kicked off by 
  hitting a URL, I think with that we can be aligned with what the 
  traceability folks are doing in step 1. Step 2 so the first one 
  is I want to present something to you or I want to engage in a 
  flow with you in a workflow with you that's the first client to 
  server message the server response back with okay if you want to 
  do that here the things I need from you.
Manu Sporny:  So, lots of alignment on step 2 and 3.
Manu Sporny:  Step 4, we don't want this to be tied to verifiable 
  presentation request in fact we want to allow for extensions 
  around for alternative verifiable for presentation exchange 
  languages different ones here, like WACI/PeX.
Manu Sporny:  Partly, because you know, maybe VPR is the wrong 
  thing to do.
<orie> WACI/PeX isn't a work item, I don't want to comment on it.
Manu Sporny:  And we might want VPR out when we find out that it 
  was a terrible choice.
<orie> but I don't think thats a good strategy.
Manu Sporny:  So we could potentially do different presentation 
  protocols like WACI/PeX or DIDComm-based thing or some binary 
  Bluetooth whatchamajigger. The key here is that we want to be 
  able to have some agility/extensibility here... but we will focus 
  on VPR first. I just wanted to highlight that we may want to 
  enable other protocols and presentation request mechanisms.
Orie Steele: +1 To starting with 1 thing, and not precluding 
  others
<mprorock> can we bring this in as a work item to CCG?
Manu Sporny:  Or he saying he doesn't like to this is Reggie 
  that's totally fine just putting it out there for people to to 
  think about yes agreed Glory let's start with one thing and we 
  remodeling it you know VPR.
<mprorock> i would feel better on call time and contributing if 
  it were and covered by full IPR
Manu Sporny:  Yes, we can do that, Mike... just need a 
  co-sponsor.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api-use-cases/pull/5/files
<juan_caballero_(spruce)> (to the previous point about /available 
  endpoint initiation)
Manu Sporny:  Markus also raised a really good point -- don't we 
  want to use other authz/authn strategies -- yes, we do, but we 
  don't want to pick one. We might be able to say it's open ended, 
  use what's important to you.
Manu Sporny:  Step 4 also disagrees between workflows and 
  traceability. Autorefresh gives you back a VP at the end... 
  Traceability tells you if the VP succeeded or failed. So, 
  alignment needs to happen there.
Manu Sporny:  For the traceability stuff is kind of yeah we got 
  your presentation everything validated. What we're proposing with 
  auto-refresh that we want to be able to do a continuation into 
  another process, now that you've passed this process, so we 
  should probably discuss in a future call and have a discussion 
  around how do we reconcile those two kind of things.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah it just made a comment in the chat, and I 
  didn't want it to get lost. I would feel better, like with this 
  item, and I think the request back are both like Digital Bazaar 
  items, I feel a lot better if we're dedicating call time to CCG 
  work items.
Mike Prorock:  Just as we're starting to get more eyes in and 
  stuff like that.
Orie Steele: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vp-request-spec/ is 
  contributed to by Secure Key... supposedly.
Manu Sporny:  Agreed, VPR is already a CCG work item.
Manu Sporny:  So everyone has seen what we're proposing to do, do 
  we have anyone that wants to be a co-sponsor on the on the spec?
<orie> You might try the regular call time and mailing list
Manu Sporny:  I'll send something out to the mailing list, I was 
  just seeing if we can pick one up here, then we're done. If not, 
  we'll take it to the mailing list, so that's what we're waiting 
  on, Mike... we definitely want this in the CCG as soon as 
  possible, but we need a co-sponsor.
<mprorock> if we can get this aligned better with trace, I would 
  happily co-sponsor.
Manu Sporny:  Alright I'll send it out to the the mailing list 
  with the request.
Manu Sporny:  All right, and that's a call thanks everyone for 
  the call day.
<orie> Great work on this.
Manu Sporny:  Thank you to our Robot Overlords for scribing.
Manu Sporny:  Chat with everyone next week. Thanks all, bye.
