[2022-01-11T20:59:39.324Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2022-01-11T20:59:39.486Z]	<Justin_Richer>	present+
[2022-01-11T20:59:52.340Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:00:53.527Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:01:02.108Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:01:33.221Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:01:51.833Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:02:30.363Z]	<Rolson_Quadras>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:02:38.010Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:02:50.056Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:02:52.013Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:03:09.045Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:03:55.885Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:04:05.265Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-01-11T21:04:05.266Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: vcapi
[2022-01-11T21:04:25.781Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Alright welcome everyone to the VC API call this is January 11th 2022.
[2022-01-11T21:04:36.408Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We are trying auto-transcription today, we'll see how it does it typically does a terrible job -- but you know -- let's just give it a shot.
[2022-01-11T21:04:38.722Z]	<brentz>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:04:43.412Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Jan/0089.html
[2022-01-11T21:04:43.777Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Our agenda for today was sent out last Sunday.
[2022-01-11T21:04:58.860Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: On the agenda today we just have agenda review, which is this, some introductions for anyone that's needed to call any relevant Community updates.
[2022-01-11T21:05:09.764Z]	<Justin_Richer>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:05:26.974Z]	<markus_sabadello>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:05:29.508Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:05:34.670Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:05:36.059Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I'll do a quick overview of verifiable credential refresh 2021, new spec that uses VC API -- not meant to be a debate just kind of like a heads up kind of thing. We'll then talk about then some pull requests -- there's a workflow automation request that I put in that Orie has been heavily engaged in, and that Marcus has been heavily engaged in. Thanks for being here Marcus, I know it's late your time -- so we will talk about that and then do issue processing with any time that's left over.
[2022-01-11T21:05:42.139Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Any updates that folks would want to make to the agenda.
[2022-01-11T21:05:45.602Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:05:55.152Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay, then we'll go with that agenda.
[2022-01-11T21:06:07.378Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:06:23.188Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: For those of you that might have missed it; Chrome 97 was just released 7 days ago and it seems to be semi-busted with its audio. You may need to use Firefox or Safari or the Jitsi App or dial-in or chromium version before 97 -- all this should work, Chrome 97 is busted.
[2022-01-11T21:06:29.154Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:06:30.685Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	Thanks manu :) was scratching my head why audio wasn't working
[2022-01-11T21:06:36.455Z]	<Transcriber>	Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2022-01-11T21:06:36.455Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Let's do introductions and reintroductions, anyone new to call? Anyone that wants to provide a reintroduction or has anything changed with you?, or you just want to reintroduce yourself to the group.
[2022-01-11T21:06:38.349Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:06:42.728Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:06:44.026Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:06:52.198Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Alright if there's no one that wants to re-intro themselves, let's move on
[2022-01-11T21:06:53.768Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:07:02.766Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Relevant Community Updates
[2022-01-11T21:07:04.892Z]	<Rolson_Quadras>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:07:05.577Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We will go on with the rest of the agenda. Next topic up is relevant Community updates.
[2022-01-11T21:07:32.992Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:07:34.852Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:07:45.097Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:08:07.058Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	ðŸ’ªðŸŒ²
[2022-01-11T21:08:22.692Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The only Community update I have is that, I mean, it's no secret the DHS SVIP program is going to run a set of interoperability tests throughout this year. We expect that some of that work is going to happen in this group. This is an open invitation for anyone to participate -- we're really trying hard to do all that work out in the open, in public, and so the interop tests, which will be public, they'll be some of them maybe working elsewhere, but they're meant to be set up so anyone can participate. So you do not have to be in the DHS SVIP program to participate in the interop tests. Spruce is a great example of a company that was not an SVIP company that still went and demonstrated interop amongst a lot of the test suites.
[2022-01-11T21:08:25.328Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: We will likely be running the supply chain and traceability side over in the trace work item, but you know, there's overlap with apis here.
[2022-01-11T21:08:45.494Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Would love to it if other vendors would like to pass those tests. Happy to help you get pointed in the right direction on that stuff.
[2022-01-11T21:08:54.616Z]	<Rolson_Quadras>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:09:02.149Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Awesome, great thanks Mike I do think it would be super interesting if companies that have nothing to do with traceability were put into that test to see how far you get.
[2022-01-11T21:09:04.199Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Fantastic, which is why I was bringing it up on this call.
[2022-01-11T21:09:19.073Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay, great, so I'm sure we'll see vendors volunteering to be subjected to things they've never seen before and seeing if they interop -- that's the best kind of interop.
[2022-01-11T21:09:21.451Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Any other relevant Community updates?
[2022-01-11T21:09:24.733Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Or wishes for this year?
[2022-01-11T21:09:30.203Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_Jr_(via_iPhone)>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:09:40.769Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	Don't ask me that :)
[2022-01-11T21:09:41.462Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Surely, you guys want something to happen this year right.
[2022-01-11T21:09:43.733Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:09:45.013Z]	<mprorock>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop
[2022-01-11T21:09:45.127Z]	<Orie>	I wish for the W3C to become a Legal Entity.
[2022-01-11T21:09:49.524Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Laughing at Adrian and Orie's comments.
[2022-01-11T21:09:49.612Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: My sincere wishes for the Jitsi audio to work.
[2022-01-11T21:09:49.728Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:09:54.277Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Your wish and mine, my friend.
[2022-01-11T21:09:54.439Z]	<mprorock>	ROFL @orie
[2022-01-11T21:09:56.887Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Joe, it worked!?
[2022-01-11T21:09:56.887Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: How did it work!?
[2022-01-11T21:09:59.325Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: I heard your voice.
[2022-01-11T21:10:08.201Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	:P
[2022-01-11T21:10:09.867Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We're one-for-one so far this year on wishes granted for this year!
[2022-01-11T21:10:19.045Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Ok, the next up is Verifiable Credential Refresh.
[2022-01-11T21:10:19.602Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Verifiable Credential Refresh 2021
[2022-01-11T21:10:28.490Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Here is a link to that spec.
[2022-01-11T21:10:29.423Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://digitalbazaar.github.io/vc-refresh-2021/
[2022-01-11T21:11:16.217Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:11:41.310Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Here's a spec for verifiable credential refresh that we sent out sent out last year. We're proposing soon as a CCG work item. We're saying we'd like it to become one we do need a co-sponsor on it, so if any of you are interested in being a co-sponsor of the work item, that would be greatly appreciated.
[2022-01-11T21:11:53.578Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The purpose of this spec is basically to refresh your VC when it's about to expire, with holder consent.
[2022-01-11T21:11:58.867Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:11:59.864Z]	<Orie>	q+ to ask why another spec?
[2022-01-11T21:12:27.725Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The Assumption here is that you have holder, you have done some kind of holder interaction that's like do you want us to refresh this credential -- renew this credentialing, its expiring, and the person's clicks okay. They say "yeah I want that". This is being applied to the DHS SVIP Permanent Resident Card use case. That's a high level.
[2022-01-11T21:12:30.151Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:12:31.431Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:12:45.823Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Orie
[2022-01-11T21:13:17.627Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:13:21.458Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:13:31.957Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: I've been following this work for sometime; I think it's really awesome work. I guess it's a trend that I'm noticing, as there's revocation lists, now credential refresh stuff, there's the VP request spec, and this call is the VC API. So, I guess my main question is what are their assets of the specification that are specific to the VC API, and if so why is the specification need to be in a separate place or another way of thinking about it might be like -- it is there is it supposed to be better handled in the VP request spec?
[2022-01-11T21:13:32.193Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Different versions of this but I think folks attending this call, it becomes really hard to tell what this call is about when all of the work is split across so many different smaller specifications of the CCG. So, this seems like a risk to some degree if we continue to do that in the future. I think the work is very valuable regardless of where it happens, I'm just trying to get a sense as to what your thoughts are regarding the VC API call, which were on today, and its relationship to this work.
[2022-01-11T21:13:39.968Z]	<Phil_(T3)>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:13:45.211Z]	<mprorock>	Follow on, honestly should we note on some of these things that they might be intended to merge into main VC  API spec/WG?
[2022-01-11T21:13:59.226Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:14:00.690Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:14:06.532Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah excellent question. Let me go to the Q, I don't want to jump in front of folks. I will answer that when the queue gets to me.
[2022-01-11T21:14:28.183Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: I have kind of a follow on note that was in the chat.
[2022-01-11T21:14:31.815Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mpro
[2022-01-11T21:14:39.241Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Tob
[2022-01-11T21:14:41.059Z]	<Transcriber>	Tobias_Looker: This appears to be a data model extension spec, and a protocol definition spec.
[2022-01-11T21:15:28.738Z]	<Transcriber>	Tobias_Looker: What is the relationship, can we move some of this stuff into the main VC Data Model spec, how would that be accommodated.
[2022-01-11T21:15:37.532Z]	<Transcriber>	Tobias_Looker: Is this mean to function more as a registry for all the refresh specs?
[2022-01-11T21:15:37.719Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:15:44.687Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Joe
[2022-01-11T21:15:46.406Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Also, excellent question, Tobias -- I promise I will answer all those things when it gets to my point in the queue. Joe, you're up next.
[2022-01-11T21:16:13.588Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah, I just want to share my my sense of this. From the beginning is at the VC API was about harmonizing different work different people are doing in different places. Some of which had already emerged as their own specs on their own, so I'm supportive of building something that's harmonizing rather than a single monolithic API that we have to fight over every little detail so.
[2022-01-11T21:16:15.766Z]	<Orie>	Agree with you Joe.
[2022-01-11T21:16:19.253Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Adria
[2022-01-11T21:16:20.260Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Great thanks Joe, that does go a bit to answering the questions asked so far.
[2022-01-11T21:16:21.204Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:16:20.260Z]	<Transcriber>	Adrian_Gropper: Shouldn't we wait to do this work until after we do Authorization? Perhaps Justin can weigh in.
[2022-01-11T21:16:56.091Z]	<mprorock>	no.
[2022-01-11T21:17:09.068Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:17:18.231Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Alright thanks Adrian Justin do you want to respond to that.
[2022-01-11T21:17:21.094Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Justin
[2022-01-11T21:17:21.778Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Yeah, sure, I'll respond -- No.
[2022-01-11T21:17:46.067Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: GNAP is fundamentally about getting an artifact that gives you access to apis.
[2022-01-11T21:17:57.099Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: So, refreshing a credential could both be an API that is protected, but as the group decided months ago that is not something that this group wants to think about right now for reasons I disagree with, but have been discussed another major aspect is that this is the kind of thing that could provide input to a GNAP authorization server, what as it's making its authorization decision and that's where I see the real value of connecting these two types of protocols... but it's not really an overlap in that case either, so from what little I understand, this is about VC refresh, not authorization.
[2022-01-11T21:18:37.594Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:18:42.106Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: I don't believe that there is any type of overlap.
[2022-01-11T21:18:44.815Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Unless I'm missing something.
[2022-01-11T21:19:00.643Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I don't think you're missing anything, Justin, my read is the same as yours. Let me try and quickly answer folks questions -- first, why a different spec the VC data model?
[2022-01-11T21:19:18.974Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Sorry did not have this link ready -- finding it -- there it is: https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/#refreshing
[2022-01-11T21:20:05.539Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:20:42.333Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We contemplated something that goes in refreshService at like above... but we never defined what it was. There is a data model that goes along with it and almost certainly a protocol that goes along with it. So we always needed somewhere to define a data model and protocol for refresh. There will probably be other types of refresh services out there and they may be different specs. It's a bit too early to tell but having one like gigantic spec that handles all refresh across the entire VC ecosystem is that monolithic approach that Joe mentioned -- that might not be a good strategy, so we're trying to define at least a data model and then how the data model is going to use a protocol. So that's what this new spec does for refresh.
[2022-01-11T21:20:46.956Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This spec defines a data model, a way of doing manual refresh, and automatic refresh. The language is kinda wrong here... we want mediated and unmediated refresh, really. Automated refresh happens automatically, is completely machine-driven. Mediated expects a web browser to appear in the process where an individual human being participates.
[2022-01-11T21:20:55.480Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:22:05.745Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That can be done in a fully automated fashion presuming a that the holder has consented to doing that kind of thing. We've got data model -- that's one of the purposes of the specification, and then the other one is the defining a protocol, at what we've tried to do is reuse the VC API entirely. There's a different PR that we'll talk about later in the call that does that, but what we're trying to do here is to outline a protocol here that really just defers almost everything to the VC API. What we're saying is we would like the data model to express certain things that let you use the vanilla VC API to do all the refreshing, and we give an example of what that back-and-forth might look like here in the examples in a four step process with examples.
[2022-01-11T21:22:06.306Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  it's meant to map to the VC API directly.
[2022-01-11T21:22:07.647Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  So, that's why its not separate specs. If we were to take this refresh data model and put it into the VC API spec, that might be a bit weird because the VC API isn't really about internal VC Data Model specifics.
[2022-01-11T21:22:24.550Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Some people might disagree, but it might be weird to put the refresh spec into the VC API because that presumes that we were solving solving refresh for everything and that's probably not the case.
[2022-01-11T21:22:52.117Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We allow for multiple data models and multiple protocols for refresh because some people might not use VC API to do refresh in the future. Perhaps some sort of bluetooth refresh mechanism will come out, and that's definitely not going to use VC API over HTTP.
[2022-01-11T21:22:54.238Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2022-01-11T21:22:56.316Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mark
[2022-01-11T21:22:56.476Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I hope that answered everyone's questions, let me know if I missed something.
[2022-01-11T21:23:28.318Z]	<Transcriber>	Markus_Sabadello: This makes a lot of sense to me, the way it is modular, it's basically the same pattern as the Data Integrity work, proofs, and other parts of the VC Data Model. VC Data Model provides the central extension points, and extensions are in other specifications.
[2022-01-11T21:23:41.260Z]	<Orie>	exactly markus... but this is the first that I am aware that depends on VC API?
[2022-01-11T21:23:48.878Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:23:53.257Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mpro
[2022-01-11T21:24:20.068Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: That's similar to what Markus was saying, I mean this makes total sense, I guess my question is more around the long-term path for this. It's more about the land between the data model extensions and protocol... whats the outbound path here?
[2022-01-11T21:24:36.057Z]	<Orie>	StatusList depends of VC Data Model, this appears to depend on VC Data Model and VC API Draft?
[2022-01-11T21:24:41.374Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: How does this go into the VC working group? It feels like the data model stuff should almost move over to the data model proper right from the start, and then the protocol might be better incubated here and then standardized elsewhere.
[2022-01-11T21:24:47.229Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: What are you thinking there from a standardization path standpoint?
[2022-01-11T21:24:48.462Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:24:49.272Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:24:51.393Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Orie
[2022-01-11T21:25:01.926Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: So I just wanted to be clear, my understanding of the the refresh is that it takes a concrete dependency on the VC data model which is similar to the status list spec. But this is the first one that depends on VC Data Model and VC API, right?
[2022-01-11T21:25:26.178Z]	<mprorock>	Traceability work does the same thing.
[2022-01-11T21:25:38.485Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah, aside from Traceability, I don't know of any... but that was deliberate... we need to start standardizing these protocols.
[2022-01-11T21:25:39.847Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:25:41.656Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2022-01-11T21:26:46.682Z]	<Orie>	There were objections when we did this, with Traceability... I guess the door is open now?
[2022-01-11T21:26:54.397Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We are starting to signal pretty strongly to W3C that we have done data model, we're doing data integrity, and now we have to do protocol. So, it's to apply a kind of standardization pressure on W3C proper... these things are coming down the pipeline. We were forced to only do data model at W3C in the beginning, but we've established work at W3C now... we're going to do protocol next, the company objecting to that work has now joined us, so it might be easier.
[2022-01-11T21:26:54.891Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Status list spec is interesting, we have a normative dependency on VC Data Model, but we did normatively depend on a protocol spec -- HTTP, it just so happened that that was done and we could just use it.
[2022-01-11T21:27:26.877Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:27:27.200Z]	<Orie>	I was limiting my criticism to drafts that depend on drafts... HTTP and W3C VC Data Model are standards... but yes, answered.
[2022-01-11T21:28:54.660Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Again, I'm just proposing a possible path forward. We have a VC Data Model standard, we have a VCWG, we are doing Data Integrity next, once that's done, it's protocol... There is a pipeline here and we're just filling the pipeline.
[2022-01-11T21:28:57.597Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: In the next rechartering as a non-normative work item and then when we recharter again which we can do within a year right I mean we can change your mind if things go quickly with the data Integrity stuff we can recharter and then take on the VC API work, and possibly things that depend on it (like status list, refresh, etc.).
[2022-01-11T21:29:21.840Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Yeah.
[2022-01-11T21:29:40.294Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Make total sense. We know that protocol caused consternation in the past at W3C, so cautious for that reason.
[2022-01-11T21:28:57.597Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We've won at least one of the formal objectors over since that point in time.
[2022-01-11T21:29:56.178Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2022-01-11T21:30:03.692Z]	<Orie>	I would never assume someone won't formally object.
[2022-01-11T21:30:06.598Z]	<Orie>	ever.
[2022-01-11T21:30:22.786Z]	<Orie>	in fact, start assuming they will.
[2022-01-11T21:30:29.881Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah, agree, people are still going to formally object over something.
[2022-01-11T21:30:36.911Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Any other questions on that before we move on?
[2022-01-11T21:30:49.420Z]	<Transcriber>	Topic: Issuer Automation Pull Request
[2022-01-11T21:31:30.541Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This PR was raised as a non-normative basis for the credential refresh spec.
[2022-01-11T21:32:17.146Z]	<Orie>	q+ to note the objection seems resolved
[2022-01-11T21:32:18.492Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Basically, this PR is about issuing through automation workflows... it says it's highly experimental, just a simple four-step back and forth protocol, gives examples w/o adding normative text.
[2022-01-11T21:32:36.734Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Orie, you've provided a bunch of good input/feedback, so thanks a ton for that. Could you please take us through your feedback?
[2022-01-11T21:32:37.653Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Orie
[2022-01-11T21:33:27.937Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Basically the original objection was that the PR was referring to an "interact" primitive, which was assumed to be part of the VP request spec, which is a assumed (I think) dependency of the VC API as it stands today, so let me share that PR...
[2022-01-11T21:33:41.338Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vp-request-spec/pull/13
[2022-01-11T21:33:52.491Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: This is the change request I asked for -- define "interact" in VPR spec... and you did that in this PR.
[2022-01-11T21:34:22.475Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: This is where it belongs and now you're now providing an example in the VC API spec on how to use this feature.
[2022-01-11T21:34:55.753Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: So we're now doing a second version of that, and if you're clever with using it, you can use it to present credentials from a holder to a verifier. Now this new pull request on the VC API is doing the same thing, except that there's this extra interact feature, which you can use and if you want to learn more about it you can go read the VP request spec.
[2022-01-11T21:35:14.039Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to talk about interact
[2022-01-11T21:35:29.796Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: We had no definition, and now we're adding a thing that has a definition, and it doesn't preclude the existing flows that we have. I do think it fails to understand why there's existing flows were requested in first place, but that's not a reason to hold off the pull request. We can continue to work on that.
[2022-01-11T21:35:29.991Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: So I just I'm trying to connect all the dots for folks, to understand everything you have to go read a couple other pull request to get the background information.
[2022-01-11T21:36:36.050Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:36:40.438Z]	<Orie>	Is it compatible with GNAP?
[2022-01-11T21:36:50.273Z]	<Orie>	can you use GNAP with "interact"?
[2022-01-11T21:36:53.697Z]	<Orie>	these are good questions.
[2022-01-11T21:36:57.396Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Justin, I'm interested in your thoughts on interact, because it was inspired by GNAP. Do you have any high-level thoughts to start, or do you want some more time to think about it since we just dumped this question on you.
[2022-01-11T21:37:13.112Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:37:54.650Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: I have not had a chance to read this in any depth whatsoever, but I can say that this kind of pattern is exactly the type of connection point we were talking about in the GNAP process. The authorization server is allowed to say: "ere's how I can do the authorization in the client to negotiate ways to interact with the end-user", and that's what the interact block is all about so when the client shows up and it says that I want to talk to the AS -- these are the ways that I can interact with.
[2022-01-11T21:38:26.658Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: With the end-user if you need to, the AS can come back and say: "Yes, this is how I will support that interaction because I need to get in touch with the user somehow now". I'm not convinced from just reading what's on the screen here that this is actually doing the same thing, so I don't know if it's the right application of that.
[2022-01-11T21:38:39.221Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: We're not doing the same kind of negotiation, I believe, here.
[2022-01-11T21:38:43.477Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: We're not doing the same kind of delegation.
[2022-01-11T21:38:46.315Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: This is just kind of access.
[2022-01-11T21:39:08.208Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:39:22.735Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: So, I don't think it's quite the same thing but again I have not had a chance to read through this in any depth, so I'm not really qualified to speak on what was meant here.
[2022-01-11T21:39:25.759Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2022-01-11T21:39:26.302Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Maybe Dimitri can fill that in, though?
[2022-01-11T21:39:27.267Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack justin
[2022-01-11T21:39:28.756Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack dmitri
[2022-01-11T21:39:29.874Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: I think he understands both sides a little bit better.
[2022-01-11T21:39:32.169Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Dimitri.
[2022-01-11T21:39:40.753Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: So yeah, the interactive section was definitely inspired by GNAP.
[2022-01-11T21:39:51.915Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: It's both true that this is not trying to replace GNAP.
[2022-01-11T21:40:05.089Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to note we'll want feedback as things develop.
[2022-01-11T21:40:10.972Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: This is more this whole mediated and unmediated flows is trying to model.
[2022-01-11T21:40:13.614Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Iterative, between client server that has to do with prerequisites on the server side.
[2022-01-11T21:40:36.462Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: So client asking: "Please issue me this credential or please renew this credential", and the server saying: "In order to do that, I need the following things and here's where you can submit them."
[2022-01-11T21:40:37.180Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:40:41.313Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: That's what the "interact" block is doing.
[2022-01-11T21:40:41.672Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:40:45.449Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:41:11.702Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: So, it's inspired by GNAP, not trying to compete with it.
[2022-01-11T21:41:15.177Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Can I respond to that?
[2022-01-11T21:41:17.263Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Please.
[2022-01-11T21:41:19.191Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Thank you, I realize I'm jumping the queue my apologies.
[2022-01-11T21:41:22.093Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Okay, so that does make more sense now.
[2022-01-11T21:41:42.171Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: As is usually the case, in systems design when you see things that are in inspired and similar, it does start to beg the question: "Is there a common abstraction or, cross-reference, that could even be used here?"
[2022-01-11T21:42:13.884Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: So, Dimitri, I'm actually going to request invite you to present at the GNAP interim meeting next week, if you're at all available? I can give you 20 minutes or so to very roughly present this idea to the GNAP working group and cuz I think it's interesting.
[2022-01-11T21:42:41.976Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: I do think this pattern is interesting, and I think that might be something that the networking group would like to take a look at if you're available.
[2022-01-11T21:42:47.211Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: I would love to, yeah, let's connect and cross pollinate the idea.
[2022-01-11T21:42:48.521Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:43:45.846Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Awesome, this is exactly it is exactly the type of feedback and conversation I was hoping would happen. Justin, we just want to make sure that if we're using "interact" here, it doesn't screw things up with GNAP. If it's going to send people down the wrong path, or a misunderstanding, we will rename it if it turns out this is a bad idea. We're trying it out because we think there's probably some kind of generic pattern here that's interesting.
[2022-01-11T21:43:51.830Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Manu
[2022-01-11T21:43:54.664Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:43:58.676Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Yeah and I really do believe in the power of this pattern, otherwise we wouldn't be building GNAP off of this. For those unfamiliar with how works, this whole interaction section is one of the key protocol differentiators (for GNAP).
[2022-01-11T21:44:29.887Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q-
[2022-01-11T21:44:47.402Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Today, you have to sort of decide ahead of time what your Grant type is and then you're kind of stuck with in that process. In GNAP, this interact section that allows this decision to be made at runtime where you don't have to know everything ahead of time. I'm very much a fan of this pattern and I would like these two groups actually try to figure out if there is either commonality or as Manu said, we do need to be carefully distinct from each other because if they're similar patterns.
[2022-01-11T21:44:47.616Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: We don't want people assuming that n extension that gets written for VC API can just be dropped into a GNAP negotiation.
[2022-01-11T21:44:53.180Z]	<Orie>	See also https://developer.box.com/guides/authentication/tokens/downscope/
[2022-01-11T21:44:53.499Z]	<mprorock>	you can downgrade tokens in oauth
[2022-01-11T21:44:59.304Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Adri
[2022-01-11T21:45:04.202Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:45:26.196Z]	<Justin_Richer>	yes you can downscope in Oauth, I wrote that section in the spec :)
[2022-01-11T21:45:55.989Z]	<Transcriber>	Adrian_Gropper: Yes, so apologies for my inability to understand the protocol work. I think I can help by basically saying what my perspective is on this conversation. I'm interested from a privacy perspective that every request falls to the authorization server regardless of what authorization server is associated with what domain whether it's the issuer  or the holder or something else.
[2022-01-11T21:46:03.656Z]	<brentz>	present+
[2022-01-11T21:46:29.386Z]	<Transcriber>	Adrian_Gropper: It sounds to me like we're planning to send requests and this case refresh requests to the resource server, the issuer as a resource server. It raises all sorts of issues in my mind, I apologize if I'm getting it wrong cuz I'm too high level for the discussion at hand, but that's what I'm trying to get to.
[2022-01-11T21:46:32.367Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:46:34.410Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Just
[2022-01-11T21:46:43.168Z]	<Justin_Richer>	Details for the interim meeting next week: https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/gnap/meetings/
[2022-01-11T21:46:48.703Z]	<mprorock>	so you want a central point of failure and control?
[2022-01-11T21:46:53.619Z]	<Orie>	Room_641A
[2022-01-11T21:46:58.350Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: we'll have time to talk about this -- this is all new stuff, so I think everyone's going to have to get their mind wrapped around it before we can have a productive discussion in the group. This is just a heads up that this stuff is out there and there is a PR.
[2022-01-11T21:47:10.579Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:47:39.840Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mpro
[2022-01-11T21:47:42.843Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I heard Orie say that he's okay with the PR so far. It would be good for other people to take a look at the multiple PR's and see what they think about them. Remember this is all experimental stuff so we're trying to be a bit faster about moving these things in, but it would be good to get a couple more reviews in before we pull it in. There were a few open questions that Orie and Markus raised in the PR that might be good to put out to the group.
[2022-01-11T21:47:51.984Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: From a nerd perspective, I hate to say this, but I kind of want to see a diagram and some plain English.
[2022-01-11T21:48:01.052Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ diagram, got it -- swimlanes
[2022-01-11T21:48:02.937Z]	<Orie>	Lets volunteer Joe : )
[2022-01-11T21:48:07.562Z]	<Orie>	he makes diagrams!
[2022-01-11T21:48:12.807Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	:laughs: Joe's good work reduced to "He makes diagrams."
[2022-01-11T21:48:14.068Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:48:30.788Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: It's just a feeling a little bit in nebulous, and a feeling a little bit like some of the language is just so in the weeds.
[2022-01-11T21:48:43.582Z]	<dmitriz>	@mprorock: could I interest you in https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/245 ?
[2022-01-11T21:48:48.806Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: And I kind of want it in there now, but it might just be a room for improvement thing.
[2022-01-11T21:48:51.072Z]	<dmitriz>	it doesn't have diagram, but has step by step examples
[2022-01-11T21:48:51.480Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:48:54.649Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2022-01-11T21:48:55.533Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes, I can do a diagram, no problem, swim lanes, got it.
[2022-01-11T21:49:00.235Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Yeah, that would be awesome.
[2022-01-11T21:49:11.827Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: First glance I can't be the only programmer that's been working on that work stuff for 20-plus years that's going to look at this go: "Oh yeah, it might be useful for something else."
[2022-01-11T21:49:16.233Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Agreed, it did cross my mind when I was writing the PR and then I just sort of ran out of time. I can put a swimlane diagram in the PR.
[2022-01-11T21:49:26.939Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2022-01-11T21:49:32.133Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:49:36.253Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:49:36.570Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:49:39.034Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Dmitri
[2022-01-11T21:49:57.821Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: I just wanted to respond to Mike, could I interest you in the write-up and VC API issue 245 -- no diagrams, but it does have step-by-step JSON examples.
[2022-01-11T21:50:12.843Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: It differs from Manu's Proposal in like one API endpoint, but same for the rest.
[2022-01-11T21:50:23.705Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-01-11T21:50:42.456Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Orie
[2022-01-11T21:50:57.476Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: You can do whatever you want in the refresh spec because it's not a CCG work item, it's under Digital Bazaar right now, so you don't need any permission to update that document.
[2022-01-11T21:50:59.220Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That's true, thanks for the reminder, I had totally forgotten about that.
[2022-01-11T21:51:18.910Z]	<Transcriber>	Adrian_Gropper: A quick question, I saw a comment in the chat about a single point of failure. I think it was a reference to something I might have said and I'm curious what triggered that?
[2022-01-11T21:51:19.110Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:51:23.465Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mpro
[2022-01-11T21:51:47.793Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Yeah, I did and I think Orie dropped one of the many things I was thinking, which is a certain room in a building that you could probably Wikipedia if you care to (central routing point for all communication)... I always get very concerned when I hear things like: "Oh, all of this stuff needs to route through the authorization service."
[2022-01-11T21:51:48.175Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Snooping attack vector.
[2022-01-11T21:51:56.177Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:52:09.999Z]	<Orie>	I get concerned anytime i hear choke point... some guys like squeezing choke points.
[2022-01-11T21:52:15.158Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Adria
[2022-01-11T21:52:17.860Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie
[2022-01-11T21:52:49.375Z]	<Transcriber>	Adrian_Gropper: Well to the extent that we're concerned to align with a zero trust architecture mandates, so you know when the federal procurement. In general, I think it's very much worth discussing the point that Mike brought up because in my opinion one could look at your  architecture and say the problem is Zero Trust Architecture. I'll just leave it at that, thank you.
[2022-01-11T21:52:51.121Z]	<mprorock>	off topic, but yes important
[2022-01-11T21:53:17.382Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I wanted to point out a couple of things, food for thought, and then kickoff a discussion on any of them.
[2022-01-11T21:54:06.118Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I wanted to point out here what's being proposed in the auto-refresh spec is that each workflow is kicked off by hitting a URL, I think with that we can be aligned with what the traceability folks are doing in step 1. Step 2 so the first one is I want to present something to you or I want to engage in a flow with you in a workflow with you that's the first client to server message the server response back with okay if you want to do that here the things I need from you.
[2022-01-11T21:54:06.400Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So, lots of alignment on step 2 and 3.
[2022-01-11T21:54:06.548Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Step 4, we don't want this to be tied to verifiable presentation request in fact we want to allow for extensions around for alternative verifiable for presentation exchange languages different ones here, like WACI/PeX.
[2022-01-11T21:54:25.979Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Partly, because you know, maybe VPR is the wrong thing to do.
[2022-01-11T21:54:33.838Z]	<Orie>	WACI/PeX isn't a work item, I don't want to comment on it.
[2022-01-11T21:54:38.066Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And we might want VPR out when we find out that it was a terrible choice.
[2022-01-11T21:54:43.808Z]	<Orie>	but I don't think thats a good strategy.
[2022-01-11T21:55:07.591Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So we could potentially do different presentation protocols like WACI/PeX or DIDComm-based thing or some binary Bluetooth whatchamajigger. The key here is that we want to be able to have some agility/extensibility here... but we will focus on VPR first. I just wanted to highlight that we may want to enable other protocols and presentation request mechanisms.
[2022-01-11T21:55:10.464Z]	<Orie>	+1 to starting with 1 thing, and not precluding others
[2022-01-11T21:55:16.771Z]	<mprorock>	can we bring this in as a work item to CCG?
[2022-01-11T21:55:22.894Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Or he saying he doesn't like to this is Reggie that's totally fine just putting it out there for people to to think about yes agreed Glory let's start with one thing and we remodeling it you know VPR.
[2022-01-11T21:55:59.397Z]	<mprorock>	i would feel better on call time and contributing if it were and covered by full IPR
[2022-01-11T21:55:22.894Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes, we can do that, Mike... just need a co-sponsor.
[2022-01-11T21:56:12.161Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api-use-cases/pull/5/files
[2022-01-11T21:56:29.604Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	(to the previous point about /available endpoint initiation)
[2022-01-11T21:56:32.457Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Markus also raised a really good point -- don't we want to use other authz/authn strategies -- yes, we do, but we don't want to pick one. We might be able to say it's open ended, use what's important to you.
[2022-01-11T21:56:48.552Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2022-01-11T21:57:23.610Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Step 4 also disagrees between workflows and traceability. Autorefresh gives you back a VP at the end... Traceability tells you if the VP succeeded or failed. So, alignment needs to happen there.
[2022-01-11T21:57:50.688Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mpr
[2022-01-11T21:57:54.794Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: For the traceability stuff is kind of yeah we got your presentation everything validated. What we're proposing with auto-refresh that we want to be able to do a continuation into another process, now that you've passed this process, so we should probably discuss in a future call and have a discussion around how do we reconcile those two kind of things.
[2022-01-11T21:58:09.847Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Yeah it just made a comment in the chat, and I didn't want it to get lost. I would feel better, like with this item, and I think the request back are both like Digital Bazaar items, I feel a lot better if we're dedicating call time to CCG work items.
[2022-01-11T21:58:29.572Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to ask for co-sponsors
[2022-01-11T21:58:30.909Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Just as we're starting to get more eyes in and stuff like that.
[2022-01-11T21:58:33.200Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vp-request-spec/ is contributed to by Secure Key... supposedly.
[2022-01-11T21:58:51.053Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Agreed, VPR is already a CCG work item.
[2022-01-11T21:58:59.423Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So everyone has seen what we're proposing to do, do we have anyone that wants to be a co-sponsor on the on the spec?
[2022-01-11T21:59:02.546Z]	<Orie>	You might try the regular call time and mailing list
[2022-01-11T21:59:23.769Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I'll send something out to the mailing list, I was just seeing if we can pick one up here, then we're done. If not, we'll take it to the mailing list, so that's what we're waiting on, Mike... we definitely want this in the CCG as soon as possible, but we need a co-sponsor.
[2022-01-11T21:59:31.710Z]	<mprorock>	if we can get this aligned better with trace, I would happily co-sponsor.
[2022-01-11T21:59:32.123Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Alright I'll send it out to the the mailing list with the request.
[2022-01-11T21:59:42.663Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right, and that's a call thanks everyone for the call day.
[2022-01-11T21:59:45.407Z]	<Orie>	Great work on this.
[2022-01-11T21:59:47.608Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Thank you to our Robot Overlords for scribing.
[2022-01-11T21:59:54.317Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Chat with everyone next week. Thanks all, bye.

