[2021-11-01T14:58:22.305Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-11-01T14:59:02.553Z]	<Hakan_Yildirim>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:00:23.269Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:01:05.908Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:01:13.203Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:01:35.632Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:05:23.052Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>  agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Oct/0091.html
[2021-11-01T15:05:23.053Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>  topic: IP Note
[2021-11-01T15:05:23.054Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-11-01T15:05:30.284Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2021-11-01T15:05:38.364Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2021-11-01T15:05:41.722Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:06:32.139Z]	<John_Kuo>	OK
[2021-11-01T15:06:44.917Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:07:22.275Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	chair: kerri
[2021-11-01T15:07:34.364Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:07:40.999Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	kerri: asked John to be the scribe and typing up how to do it here
[2021-11-01T15:07:58.215Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>  kerri: IRC commands: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/irc_ref.html
[2021-11-01T15:07:58.216Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>  topic:  Scribe Selection
[2021-11-01T15:07:58.217Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>  scribe:  John_Kuo
[2021-11-01T15:07:58.215Z]	<John_Kuo>	There are guidelines with tips
[2021-11-01T15:08:09.334Z]	<John_Kuo>	:+1:
[2021-11-01T15:08:27.478Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>  topic:  Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-11-01T15:08:27.479Z]	<John_Kuo>	Introductions...
[2021-11-01T15:08:47.848Z]	<John_Kuo>	Hakan Yildrim new
[2021-11-01T15:09:03.716Z]	<John_Kuo>	PhD student in Turkey, visiting scholar at Purdue
[2021-11-01T15:09:23.029Z]	<John_Kuo>	Working on blockchain in education, happy to be here
[2021-11-01T15:09:42.622Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Welcome Hakan!
[2021-11-01T15:10:02.579Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>  topic:  Announcements & Reminders
[2021-11-01T15:10:02.580Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri: Announcements and reminders
[2021-11-01T15:10:07.270Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/
[2021-11-01T15:10:22.993Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:10:33.337Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Oct/0092.html
[2021-11-01T15:10:45.141Z]	<John_Kuo>	Tomorrow CCG call will have state senator sharing Wyomings initiative
[2021-11-01T15:10:49.899Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Nov/0000.html
[2021-11-01T15:11:06.993Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.evernym.com/dids-webinar/
[2021-11-01T15:11:12.205Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:11:14.139Z]	<John_Kuo>	Drummond Reed from Evernym
[2021-11-01T15:11:54.993Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>  topic:  Co-chairs election begins - review of nomination and voting procedures.
[2021-11-01T15:11:54.993Z]	<John_Kuo>	First agenda item:  VC edu co-chair election, two open slots
[2021-11-01T15:12:17.932Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Co-chair description https://docs.google.com/document/d/11I96C6QMzx9Yv0mvM3hAnc3jB5ER69qmzQTeY1a8M8s/edit
[2021-11-01T15:12:46.515Z]	<Simone>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:12:48.632Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri- finds it fulfilling, always know what's going on, as co-chair you are at the center
[2021-11-01T15:13:07.417Z]	<John_Kuo>	Hard for one person, better to distribute responsibilities
[2021-11-01T15:13:21.017Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	public-vc-edu@w3.org
[2021-11-01T15:13:29.280Z]	<John_Kuo>	Two week nomination, self nomination via email
[2021-11-01T15:13:41.120Z]	<John_Kuo>	Send it why you are interested
[2021-11-01T15:13:54.840Z]	<John_Kuo>	If more than two will hold a vote
[2021-11-01T15:13:56.761Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.opavote.com
[2021-11-01T15:14:13.768Z]	<John_Kuo>	Will be ranked choice
[2021-11-01T15:14:31.625Z]	<John_Kuo>	Monday 11/15 statements and questions
[2021-11-01T15:14:44.223Z]	<John_Kuo>	Or if just two will be introductions
[2021-11-01T15:14:48.401Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:14:52.004Z]	<John_Kuo>	11/21 voting deadline
[2021-11-01T15:14:58.605Z]	<John_Kuo>	11/22 results
[2021-11-01T15:15:06.283Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:15:13.928Z]	<John_Kuo>	Use Cases:
[2021-11-01T15:15:27.358Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri:  working to populate:
[2021-11-01T15:15:33.000Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	VC-EDU use case doc: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed-use-cases/
[2021-11-01T15:15:56.828Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Google doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O98lt85PS8ozyMtKQMPdZPLnzpNI30bEgYH1Dq-C-IQ/edit?usp=sharing
[2021-11-01T15:15:59.027Z]	<John_Kuo>	Started google to work directly avoid GitHub etc. for now
[2021-11-01T15:16:16.380Z]	<John_Kuo>	Will begin reviewing and populating
[2021-11-01T15:16:34.589Z]	<John_Kuo>	Review existing use cases and align with template
[2021-11-01T15:16:41.336Z]	<John_Kuo>	Please write your own
[2021-11-01T15:16:49.269Z]	<John_Kuo>	Just use template
[2021-11-01T15:16:50.297Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Use case template: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QcPTXUuhcJdQFPcj0F31MVg8QTGtOsSx93E7D6L4ZSI/edit
[2021-11-01T15:17:07.475Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>  topic:  Review Use Cases - Two from Matt Lisle
[2021-11-01T15:17:07.476Z]	<John_Kuo>	Matt Lyle from Georgia tech has two use cases
[2021-11-01T15:17:16.275Z]	<John_Kuo>	Matt share screen
[2021-11-01T15:17:55.965Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)> one of the counterintuitive bits about jitsi UX
[2021-11-01T15:18:03.464Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Professional Education:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Sr4FGsv6gpViu0i5a9hduNpdXz2z9KND5MWtGoAma6s/edit
[2021-11-01T15:18:15.203Z]	<John_Kuo>	First use case GT professional education
[2021-11-01T15:18:21.706Z]	<John_Kuo>	E.g. continuing education
[2021-11-01T15:18:27.312Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:18:36.434Z]	<John_Kuo>	Jane is employee at company looking for promotion via GT
[2021-11-01T15:19:07.168Z]	<John_Kuo>	Wants to earn GT PE certificate, 4 course 1 day in person course, at end you get a certificate
[2021-11-01T15:19:37.059Z]	<John_Kuo>	Slight wrinkle: Jane would like cumulative and also for each course, Jane wants printable certificate
[2021-11-01T15:19:51.962Z]	<John_Kuo>	Companies want printable certificate
[2021-11-01T15:20:20.723Z]	<John_Kuo>	Copied from existing use cases, OB, DIF, CLR etc.
[2021-11-01T15:20:38.147Z]	<John_Kuo>	DID web,OIDC
[2021-11-01T15:21:05.937Z]	<John_Kuo>	Tech:  LMS of GTP and SIS,. Canvas and Genius, GT Authentication, Wallet, talent  system
[2021-11-01T15:21:13.854Z]	<John_Kuo>	Goal: advance career
[2021-11-01T15:21:23.852Z]	<John_Kuo>	Actors, Jane, GTPE, employer
[2021-11-01T15:21:42.256Z]	<John_Kuo>	Preconditions: Janes needs wallet... ?
[2021-11-01T15:22:04.895Z]	<John_Kuo>	Have Grad student doing UX research, how important is a wallet long term...
[2021-11-01T15:22:30.949Z]	<John_Kuo>	GTPE needs to issue and print, local company needs verification and ingest
[2021-11-01T15:22:39.201Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:23:01.900Z]	<John_Kuo>	Flow: current, local company doesn't use VCs
[2021-11-01T15:23:08.119Z]	<John_Kuo>	Separate one for when they can
[2021-11-01T15:23:20.781Z]	<John_Kuo>	- Completes course in LMS
[2021-11-01T15:23:31.838Z]	<John_Kuo>	- LMS issues / claim course
[2021-11-01T15:23:37.166Z]	<John_Kuo>	- Jane gets credential
[2021-11-01T15:23:41.721Z]	<John_Kuo>	Repeat
[2021-11-01T15:23:48.576Z]	<John_Kuo>	For 4 credentials
[2021-11-01T15:23:57.515Z]	<John_Kuo>	SIS issues certificate
[2021-11-01T15:24:18.676Z]	<John_Kuo>	Gets in wallet and printable certificate
[2021-11-01T15:24:38.795Z]	<John_Kuo>	Has a unique serial number
[2021-11-01T15:24:50.350Z]	<John_Kuo>	Jane presents certificate, gets recorded in HR system
[2021-11-01T15:24:59.653Z]	<John_Kuo>	Jane has all 5 digital certificates
[2021-11-01T15:24:59.909Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:25:24.205Z]	<John_Kuo>	Long term: local company can recognize VCs
[2021-11-01T15:25:29.282Z]	<John_Kuo>	Jane can just share VCs
[2021-11-01T15:25:49.716Z]	<John_Kuo>	When there is a framework Jane can be recognized as candidate
[2021-11-01T15:26:20.892Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri:  this is just digital?
[2021-11-01T15:26:35.959Z]	<John_Kuo>	Second case version is digital VC sharing only
[2021-11-01T15:26:51.425Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri: Is unique ID tied to certificate?
[2021-11-01T15:27:13.367Z]	<John_Kuo>	q+
[2021-11-01T15:27:29.928Z]	<John_Kuo>	How is serial number used?
[2021-11-01T15:27:45.918Z]	<John_Kuo>	Interesting to note
[2021-11-01T15:27:47.735Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:28:04.705Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack John_Kuo
[2021-11-01T15:28:12.436Z]	<Nate_Otto_(Badgr/CSky)>	present+
[2021-11-01T15:28:57.483Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	John_Kuo: ASU has a use case for having an external id and an attachment for paper or paper-like.
[2021-11-01T15:29:29.621Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	John_Kuo: external id maps to external system that's not a VC
[2021-11-01T15:30:01.055Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	John_Kuo: Then build a connector to the VC. Pocket is a wallet that stores schemas and instances of VCs.
[2021-11-01T15:30:06.039Z]	<John_Kuo>	John:  needs external ID and attachment, great use case
[2021-11-01T15:30:13.725Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:30:31.509Z]	<John_Kuo>	Add: this version doesn't need printable?
[2021-11-01T15:30:54.013Z]	<John_Kuo>	In second use case set maybe still need printable
[2021-11-01T15:31:56.461Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	John_Kuo: other use case - a vc with a corresponding child collection. Issue a credential that includes the child credentials based on business rules that help trigger that credential.
[2021-11-01T15:32:43.367Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	John_Kuo: for instance four courses & course completion. Done for transcript processing purposes.
[2021-11-01T15:32:45.357Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	`evidence`?
[2021-11-01T15:33:15.530Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	John_Kuo: context needed.
[2021-11-01T15:33:17.236Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	yeah, i agree
[2021-11-01T15:33:19.795Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack?
[2021-11-01T15:33:26.137Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:33:40.325Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	mind-reading!
[2021-11-01T15:33:43.896Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	:)
[2021-11-01T15:34:01.285Z]	<John_Kuo>	Dmitri>: use cases for relationships
[2021-11-01T15:34:15.832Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	The CLR has a way to make these relationships
[2021-11-01T15:34:17.285Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-11-01T15:35:30.312Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-11-01T15:35:58.324Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	i'm not sure it's appropriate here but there is this spec in TOIP land for chaining VCs: https://wiki.trustoverip.org/display/HOME/ACDC+%28Authentic+Chained+Data+Container%29+Task+Force
[2021-11-01T15:36:11.716Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:36:32.064Z]	<John_Kuo>	John:  yes, it is an issue for VCs.  Pocket is using JSON-LD and data models
[2021-11-01T15:36:43.861Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	Pocket?
[2021-11-01T15:36:48.381Z]	<John_Kuo>	Dmitri:  hash links
[2021-11-01T15:37:06.222Z]	<John_Kuo>	https://pocket.asu.edu/
[2021-11-01T15:37:26.222Z]	<John_Kuo>	Will be presenting to CCG
[2021-11-01T15:37:46.327Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:38:18.639Z]	<John_Kuo>	Juan: chain of VCs / web of trust
[2021-11-01T15:38:34.871Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:39:15.449Z]	<John_Kuo>	John:  this is lineage but not collection?
[2021-11-01T15:39:31.350Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Not Kerri-sphere :)
[2021-11-01T15:39:33.641Z]	<John_Kuo>	Juan: May not map neatly to DIDs and VCs
[2021-11-01T15:39:45.056Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:39:45.968Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	Kerri is NOT the empress of the KeRisphere
[2021-11-01T15:39:58.788Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Not yet!
[2021-11-01T15:40:18.514Z]	<John_Kuo>	Matt: one note, these are not just 4 courses necessarily but could be 4 modules
[2021-11-01T15:40:27.230Z]	<John_Kuo>	success:
[2021-11-01T15:40:35.096Z]	<John_Kuo>	-Jane has agency
[2021-11-01T15:40:48.762Z]	<John_Kuo>	-Company has access to Jane's data
[2021-11-01T15:41:02.377Z]	<John_Kuo>	Jane can become a candidate more readily
[2021-11-01T15:41:09.457Z]	<John_Kuo>	Failure:
[2021-11-01T15:41:20.488Z]	<John_Kuo>	-GT can't issue
[2021-11-01T15:41:27.721Z]	<John_Kuo>	-Company can't verify
[2021-11-01T15:41:33.592Z]	<John_Kuo>	Jane has not printed copy
[2021-11-01T15:42:00.631Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri:  any companies interested?
[2021-11-01T15:42:16.231Z]	<John_Kuo>	Matt: Companies setting these requests all the time
[2021-11-01T15:42:35.200Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri:  Phil Long suggest employer flows
[2021-11-01T15:42:53.112Z]	<John_Kuo>	Barrier:  who will build?
[2021-11-01T15:42:56.427Z]	<John_Kuo>	Q+
[2021-11-01T15:43:08.893Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:43:14.479Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri: we need more 3rd party and verifier stories
[2021-11-01T15:43:23.750Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack John_Kuo
[2021-11-01T15:44:30.706Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	John_Kuo: Pocket working AZ Next - how to get in touch with organizations partnered with AZ Next. They don't want additional requirements. Probably will be a time before these orgs accept VCs. May take some time for this. Growing awareness fo benefits.
[2021-11-01T15:44:32.988Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:45:07.880Z]	<John_Kuo>	Matt: seconds that, thinks companies are interested but not ready so much, they see it more as a retention
[2021-11-01T15:45:11.349Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-11-01T15:45:25.316Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerr: that does make sense
[2021-11-01T15:45:28.873Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Kerri_Lemoie
[2021-11-01T15:45:44.530Z]	<John_Kuo>	John: the companies are two busy
[2021-11-01T15:45:49.215Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:46:02.067Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri: benefits don't outweigh cost
[2021-11-01T15:46:44.271Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Access to campus Makerspaces: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q3Vl_IjCkKorKl4kb_Qw_RD4E2Bwe3W42Lq2k6Xf1oc/edit
[2021-11-01T15:46:54.585Z]	<John_Kuo>	Matt: second use case
[2021-11-01T15:47:04.184Z]	<John_Kuo>	Maker Spaces
[2021-11-01T15:47:23.689Z]	<John_Kuo>	Could do general training, get a credential, can access maker spaces
[2021-11-01T15:47:40.433Z]	<John_Kuo>	Wrinkle: Different levels of access...
[2021-11-01T15:47:55.210Z]	<John_Kuo>	General access isn't enough, need levels of access
[2021-11-01T15:48:11.734Z]	<John_Kuo>	Standards: same as before, OB, VCs. DIDs, OIDC
[2021-11-01T15:48:27.304Z]	<John_Kuo>	Tech: Authentication, scanners, wallet
[2021-11-01T15:48:39.337Z]	<John_Kuo>	Goal:  Jessica wants access to maker spaces
[2021-11-01T15:48:51.153Z]	<John_Kuo>	Also make spaces outside of GT
[2021-11-01T15:49:17.577Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:49:29.286Z]	<John_Kuo>	Actor:  Jessica, Maker employees
[2021-11-01T15:49:38.516Z]	<John_Kuo>	Conditions:  has wallet on smartphone
[2021-11-01T15:49:58.102Z]	<John_Kuo>	College has method to issue VCs and has hardware to present VCs
[2021-11-01T15:50:01.487Z]	<John_Kuo>	Flow:
[2021-11-01T15:50:14.165Z]	<John_Kuo>	- Jessica completes LMS course
[2021-11-01T15:50:23.478Z]	<John_Kuo>	- Gets VC from LMS adds to wallet
[2021-11-01T15:50:36.159Z]	<John_Kuo>	- Select credential, presents QR code
[2021-11-01T15:51:03.399Z]	<John_Kuo>	May not be enough has to log in
[2021-11-01T15:51:13.337Z]	<John_Kuo>	Gets access to limited stuff
[2021-11-01T15:51:27.279Z]	<John_Kuo>	Success:
[2021-11-01T15:51:36.292Z]	<John_Kuo>	- one credential gains access to all
[2021-11-01T15:51:39.604Z]	<John_Kuo>	Automated access
[2021-11-01T15:51:43.933Z]	<John_Kuo>	Failure:
[2021-11-01T15:51:53.889Z]	<John_Kuo>	Someone else gets phone access
[2021-11-01T15:52:13.508Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:52:14.101Z]	<John_Kuo>	Jessica can access equipment not qualified for
[2021-11-01T15:52:34.835Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri: great use case
[2021-11-01T15:52:46.066Z]	<John_Kuo>	Similar use case for first responders
[2021-11-01T15:53:00.636Z]	<John_Kuo>	Emergency situations, issuing badges
[2021-11-01T15:53:08.854Z]	<John_Kuo>	Was hardened for security
[2021-11-01T15:53:18.645Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:53:21.096Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	Venn Agency in LA/BC was working on something similar, i can't remember if VC-based or badge-based
[2021-11-01T15:55:05.217Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	John_Kuo: adding biometrics to Pocket
[2021-11-01T15:55:13.382Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	q+
[2021-11-01T15:55:18.073Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:55:28.960Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Matt_Lisle
[2021-11-01T15:55:47.720Z]	<John_Kuo>	matt: mentioned we have a UX research student, she questioned the focus on wallet
[2021-11-01T15:56:06.640Z]	<John_Kuo>	If she completes training, should be on record
[2021-11-01T15:56:19.823Z]	<John_Kuo>	Swipes ID card instead
[2021-11-01T15:56:33.689Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:56:59.420Z]	<John_Kuo>	John: wallet replaces ID card, or vice versa? (Kerri)
[2021-11-01T15:57:04.302Z]	<John_Kuo>	Matt: near term first tab
[2021-11-01T15:57:11.612Z]	<John_Kuo>	Use case link:
[2021-11-01T15:57:15.943Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Bz-lKhvBmWyP8t8hC0m47Y54_IOGuIsSOE4Rjsq4e1A/edit?usp=sharing
[2021-11-01T15:58:15.692Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri:  Need to talk about governance
[2021-11-01T15:58:37.133Z]	<John_Kuo>	Lots of controversy, will need to talk about it, get into use cases
[2021-11-01T15:58:39.482Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-11-01T15:58:58.829Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	+1
[2021-11-01T15:58:59.333Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri: anything else?  Thanks Matt!
[2021-11-01T15:59:03.748Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Thanks Matt!
[2021-11-01T15:59:09.222Z]	<Nate_Otto_(Badgr/CSky)>	Cheers! :+1:
