[2021-10-18T15:00:58.281Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:00:58.282Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Oct/0068.html
[2021-10-18T15:00:58.458Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:01:00.288Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:01:15.979Z]	<Patrick_Herbke_(TU_Berlin_SNET)>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:01:23.372Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:01:29.454Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:01:57.425Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:01:57.673Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:02:10.229Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:02:11.536Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	chair: Kerri_Lemoie
[2021-10-18T15:02:11.537Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: Agenda Review
[2021-10-18T15:02:11.538Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: IP Note
[2021-10-18T15:03:51.104Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-10-18T15:03:54.200Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:03:56.944Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:03:58.550Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2021-10-18T15:04:05.868Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:04:06.178Z]	<Sheryl>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:04:06.385Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2021-10-18T15:04:06.386Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Call Notes
[2021-10-18T15:04:24.174Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-10-18T15:04:48.463Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-10-18T15:04:51.620Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-10-18T15:05:03.470Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+ to discuss this
[2021-10-18T15:05:06.047Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-10-18T15:05:51.910Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:05:51.911Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Scribe Selection
[2021-10-18T15:05:55.412Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Deb volunteered to scribe
[2021-10-18T15:05:58.935Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	scribe: Deb_Everhart
[2021-10-18T15:06:11.899Z]	<Patrick_Herbke_(TU_Berlin_SNET)>	present+'[2021-10-18T15:05:51.911Z]	[2021-10-[2021-10-18T15:06:11.900Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-10-18T15:06:27.050Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	introductions: none
[2021-10-18T15:06:53.843Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	reintroduction: Taylor Kendal Learning Economy Foundatain
[2021-10-18T15:06:53.844Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2021-10-18T15:06:57.576Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2021-10-18T15:07:09.242Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	no special announcements
[2021-10-18T15:07:18.456Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	general announcements, see link
[2021-10-18T15:07:35.955Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/11I96C6QMzx9Yv0mvM3hAnc3jB5ER69qmzQTeY1a8M8s/edit
[2021-10-18T15:07:36.691Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	seeking co-chairs for this group
[2021-10-18T15:08:23.440Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:08:29.252Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:08:47.443Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	see responsibilities in the linked doc
[2021-10-18T15:09:54.511Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	let Kerri know if you are interested or have questions about being co-chair
[2021-10-18T15:10:17.458Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	great opportunity to know the community and use cases better
[2021-10-18T15:10:17.459Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Charter edits review
[2021-10-18T15:10:29.488Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	review charter
[2021-10-18T15:10:45.458Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAdC1mBSP-p6zxXGRQNfSQNPe5MY6UZ6Tf676oY7BOk/edit#
[2021-10-18T15:11:17.111Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	was more focused on LER wrapper and HE
[2021-10-18T15:11:41.051Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	now adjusting to broader focus and including training and employment contexts
[2021-10-18T15:11:57.530Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	need feedback this week to be able to confirm charter
[2021-10-18T15:12:43.588Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	this doc should provide intro and history for anyone who has questions about what this group is doing
[2021-10-18T15:15:07.165Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	scope is broad-- see Scope section of charter doc
[2021-10-18T15:16:08.509Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:16:49.183Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:17:08.378Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Marty-- "may include" is important because these points are broad
[2021-10-18T15:17:48.971Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Patrick- this fits well with what we are doing in Germany
[2021-10-18T15:18:43.681Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	working on conversion of EMREX standard to VC standard
[2021-10-18T15:19:10.044Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	public-vc-edu@w3.org
[2021-10-18T15:19:42.611Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	reminder of mailing list for outreach and sending more info to the group
[2021-10-18T15:20:47.151Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	approaches to interoperability-- see this section of the charter doc
[2021-10-18T15:21:10.143Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:21:13.171Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2021-10-18T15:21:20.490Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marty Reed
[2021-10-18T15:22:02.476Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Marty: in scope, should we include the application of verifiable presentations- Marty will add this
[2021-10-18T15:22:13.812Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q-
[2021-10-18T15:23:11.671Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	many important questions and use cases related to verifiable identity and verifiable presentations
[2021-10-18T15:24:25.661Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	work items process-- see this section of the charter doc
[2021-10-18T15:25:05.279Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	important to focus on use cases, including current, future, and theoretical-- we need more use cases
[2021-10-18T15:25:32.376Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:25:39.981Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	anyone in the group can take on and lead a work item
[2021-10-18T15:26:14.221Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ADL: standards for military & government
[2021-10-18T15:26:19.019Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	q+
[2021-10-18T15:26:19.892Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:27:03.344Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Jim_Goodell
[2021-10-18T15:27:14.220Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	ADl is widely adopted beyond government and military
[2021-10-18T15:27:16.932Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:27:47.164Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	ADL is often an initiator or incubator of standards that are taken on by others
[2021-10-18T15:27:59.474Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:28:28.767Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Jim: ADL is like a de factor standards organization
[2021-10-18T15:30:14.726Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Deb: not a priority for this group to be too specific about what technically is a "data standards organization"
[2021-10-18T15:30:16.626Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:30:56.272Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:31:12.263Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	it would be useful for someone from HR Open to come to this call to talk about the relevant standards
[2021-10-18T15:31:35.433Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:32:47.083Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2021-10-18T15:33:01.126Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marty_Reed
[2021-10-18T15:33:10.965Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Deb: focus on achievements of all types, wherever they occur, as distinct from other types of credentials such as employment date/job records
[2021-10-18T15:33:12.436Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Andrew Cunsolo has been invited to speak about some of the HR Open work at the next OSN Technical Workgroup.  I'll check  with Nate but I believe it's set for Oct. 22nd. at the TWG Friday 2:00 pm meeting.
[2021-10-18T15:33:26.924Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q-
[2021-10-18T15:33:26.943Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:33:29.878Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	:-)
[2021-10-18T15:33:44.551Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Marty: including endorsements in the scope of this group
[2021-10-18T15:34:49.460Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	focus on use cases this month and next month
[2021-10-18T15:34:50.351Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:35:16.101Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	charter available for 7 days for review, until Oct. 25
[2021-10-18T15:35:19.767Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:35:20.167Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Can we add comments to the doc?
[2021-10-18T15:35:34.409Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAdC1mBSP-p6zxXGRQNfSQNPe5MY6UZ6Tf676oY7BOk/edit#
[2021-10-18T15:35:36.340Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Great, thanks!
[2021-10-18T15:35:36.643Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	yes, you can add comments to the charter doc
[2021-10-18T15:36:09.482Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	seeking concensus on the charter by Oct. 25, so please provide comments asap
[2021-10-18T15:36:09.482Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Work Item: Use Cases
[2021-10-18T15:37:31.467Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	use case document-- specific template
[2021-10-18T15:38:04.590Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QcPTXUuhcJdQFPcj0F31MVg8QTGtOsSx93E7D6L4ZSI/edit
[2021-10-18T15:39:18.219Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/10Sj4FcbxkbUIC2yVv_XKF-6U6zDzwdIE1l83CAiP2JQ/edit
[2021-10-18T15:40:18.320Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:40:36.350Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Kerri walks through a HS Open Badges use case example, see doc
[2021-10-18T15:41:02.226Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:41:43.373Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:41:48.822Z]	<David_Ward>	The use case template (first link) does not seem to be publically readable.
[2021-10-18T15:42:32.326Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-10-18T15:46:12.373Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	I need to drop. Have a good day all.
[2021-10-18T15:46:23.864Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:46:39.274Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2021-10-18T15:46:48.217Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	q+
[2021-10-18T15:46:57.700Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1),
[2021-10-18T15:48:01.491Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	template doc permissions updated: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QcPTXUuhcJdQFPcj0F31MVg8QTGtOsSx93E7D6L4ZSI/edit?usp=sharing
[2021-10-18T15:49:28.240Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:49:50.156Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-10-18T15:49:56.685Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Deb_Everhart
[2021-10-18T15:50:45.762Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2021-10-18T15:51:00.436Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2021-10-18T15:51:01.815Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marty_Reed
[2021-10-18T15:51:18.356Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Phil: important to have use cases that cover both the badge holder and the badge consumer
[2021-10-18T15:52:13.132Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Deb: +1 @Phil and also how does CTDL provide the consumer with more info and context for recognizing the value of the credential for inclusion in the college app
[2021-10-18T15:52:52.812Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Marty: multi-lens, ecosystem view of each credential
[2021-10-18T15:53:14.537Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	q+
[2021-10-18T15:53:24.753Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Phil: use case views for different perspectives that together form an ecosystem perspective
[2021-10-18T15:53:50.265Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:54:01.135Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-10-18T15:54:08.511Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Sharon_Leu
[2021-10-18T15:55:01.102Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-10-18T15:55:06.005Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	+1 on the "use case x" with multiple lens relative the position of that participant.
[2021-10-18T15:55:06.544Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Sharon: value of keeping use cases simple, and challenges etc are distinct-- eg 1 interaction scenario w/ 3 use cases
[2021-10-18T15:56:00.951Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Deb: yes, scenario + use cases is a useful structure-- and the scenario and additonal use cases can be built out later
[2021-10-18T15:56:33.174Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Marty: walking through use case for ETS praxis results
[2021-10-18T16:00:05.017Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	everyone take a shot at writing a use case by next week
[2021-10-18T16:00:13.212Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Does the general statement that the recipients of the Praxis VC can't import data from a VC mean a business opportunity?
