[2021-07-13T16:01:22.395Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:01:22.397Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:01:22.397Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:01:22.398Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:01:30.308Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:01:30.335Z]	<IdentityWoman>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:01:32.235Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:01:41.458Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:01:49.095Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:02:10.037Z]	<Brian>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:02:20.695Z]	<bumblefudge>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:02:24.127Z]	<Dani_Johnson>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:02:26.224Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:02:44.417Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:03:05.378Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:03:24.929Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:04:34.941Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:04:47.672Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:04:58.915Z]	<brent>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:05:11.730Z]	<Andre_Kudra>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:05:50.449Z]	<David_Lehn>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:05:55.627Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:05:59.871Z]	<bumblefudge>	scribe: bumblefudge
[2021-07-13T16:06:11.018Z]	<bumblefudge>	topic: Introductions and Re-Introductions
[2021-07-13T16:06:26.785Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:07:20.981Z]	<bumblefudge>	André Kudra: I'm from eSatus, I'm here as a guest to present the IDUnion project and the Bundezkanzleramt pilot project
[2021-07-13T16:07:37.985Z]	<bumblefudge>	wyc: gratitude
[2021-07-13T16:07:42.580Z]	<Dani_Johnson>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:07:51.170Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:08:57.586Z]	<bumblefudge>	IdentityWoman: my most recent big engagement has been co-chairing the interop WG at Good Health Pass; I also want to mention my recent CCG email about mDL RFP for comments
[2021-07-13T16:09:25.837Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:09:35.323Z]	<bumblefudge>	... i see a competition or antagonism between mDL and VC spec, so we should make sure the RFP is full of references to our work which miight be sidestepped
[2021-07-13T16:09:43.119Z]	<bumblefudge>	Topic: Announcements
[2021-07-13T16:10:02.128Z]	<bumblefudge>	IdentityWoman: date (is still) 12-14 Oct for IIW proper
[2021-07-13T16:10:02.303Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:10:15.408Z]	<bumblefudge>	... and two mini-events on UX (22July) and business of SSI (4Aug)
[2021-07-13T16:10:26.875Z]	<bumblefudge>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jul/0087.html
[2021-07-13T16:10:38.143Z]	<bumblefudge>	https://internetidentityworkshop.com/
[2021-07-13T16:10:42.004Z]	<IdentityWoman>	http://www.internetidentityworkshop.com
[2021-07-13T16:10:54.316Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:10:58.747Z]	<bumblefudge>	wyc: IIW recommended for people new to the space, good collaborative environment
[2021-07-13T16:11:12.858Z]	<bumblefudge>	Topic: Progress and Action Items
[2021-07-13T16:11:31.972Z]	<bumblefudge>	wyc: new CCG co-chair, Mike Prorock-- no immediate action items
[2021-07-13T16:11:55.722Z]	<bumblefudge>	Topic: Main Event - André Kudra (eSatus) presenting on IDUnion and Bundeskanzleramt Pilot
[2021-07-13T16:12:22.884Z]	<bumblefudge>	André: I will present IDUnion first; slides presenting
[2021-07-13T16:12:58.589Z]	<bumblefudge>	... : of the 4 BMWi consortia, IDUnion is the one who is SSI to its core
[2021-07-13T16:13:10.384Z]	<bumblefudge>	... large consortium (slide of logos of all members)
[2021-07-13T16:13:39.165Z]	<bumblefudge>	... slide of all non-funded participants
[2021-07-13T16:14:07.386Z]	<bumblefudge>	... slide for third tier of "associated partners" - expressed interest and/or interacting on a research level rather than piloting level
[2021-07-13T16:14:31.488Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:14:36.993Z]	<bumblefudge>	... we work with Indy technology as our basis, but forked and with some specific EU use-cases and requirements
[2021-07-13T16:15:00.741Z]	<bumblefudge>	... in general it's a familiar architecture: wallets and Verifiable Data Registry
[2021-07-13T16:15:34.993Z]	<bumblefudge>	... slide of DLT-testnetwork - part of why the consortium was so succesful is that a testnet had already been stood up before the official application deadline
[2021-07-13T16:15:54.649Z]	<bumblefudge>	... and some use-cases were already being prototyped on that testnet with these companies participating (logos of many companies)
[2021-07-13T16:16:06.609Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:16:27.758Z]	<bumblefudge>	... wallet tech - Lissi (Commerzbank Main incubator project, now independent) and eSatus (SeLF fork)
[2021-07-13T16:16:51.371Z]	<bumblefudge>	... Business Partner Agent (cloud agent for LEI) from Bosch, Daimler and Siemens; SPherity's Cloud Wallet also involved in prototyping
[2021-07-13T16:17:16.027Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	Are the end-user wallets open source?
[2021-07-13T16:17:28.258Z]	<bumblefudge>	... "European Cooperative" (specific legal category) which will govern the ID framework (Societas Cooperativa Europea, SCE)
[2021-07-13T16:17:37.648Z]	<bumblefudge>	... complex governance being planned and iterated as part of the project
[2021-07-13T16:18:08.155Z]	<bumblefudge>	... slide with 7 verticals, topics touched by that research cluster, and the 5-10 companies involved in each
[2021-07-13T16:18:37.524Z]	<bumblefudge>	... Interoperability slide - four distinct topic areas and logos of participating agencies
[2021-07-13T16:19:06.553Z]	<bumblefudge>	... implementation roadmap slide
[2021-07-13T16:19:36.420Z]	<bumblefudge>	... i would personally like to a faster roadmap, but production-grade trials scheduled for 2022
[2021-07-13T16:20:10.830Z]	<bumblefudge>	... 15million € from the BMWi, but for the non-academic participants, this is a matching grant which must be met 1:1 with internal funds
[2021-07-13T16:20:17.787Z]	<TallTed>	Can we have a link to this slidedeck?
[2021-07-13T16:20:45.774Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q
[2021-07-13T16:20:46.555Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:20:48.381Z]	<TallTed>	q
[2021-07-13T16:20:51.862Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-07-13T16:20:54.009Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack TallTed
[2021-07-13T16:21:18.832Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Adrian
[2021-07-13T16:22:07.302Z]	<bumblefudge_>	Agropper: I am curious about the self-sovereign individual's representation here
[2021-07-13T16:22:23.293Z]	<bumblefudge_>	André: From an architectural perspective, everything is architected around the SSI principles
[2021-07-13T16:22:54.814Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... for example, one project involved is elegibility for food support in Langen
[2021-07-13T16:23:15.893Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... using SSI VCs to prove eligibility, issuing eligibility voucher for discounted food as VCs
[2021-07-13T16:23:28.010Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... in the education space, we have worked with all the same use cases you've heard of already
[2021-07-13T16:23:46.082Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... we are working with a couple universities to create a student wallet for student, parents, and teacher credential exchanges
[2021-07-13T16:23:52.769Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... (field trip consents, etc)
[2021-07-13T16:24:15.366Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and coming from the classic IAM world, we have also been experimenting with SSI for AuthN and building access
[2021-07-13T16:24:33.497Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... everyone who is involved from a use-case perspective has the SSI trust triangle in the back of their heads
[2021-07-13T16:24:44.855Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Are self-asserted achievements, skills, and abilities within the scope of credential types? (l.e. self-issued credentials)
[2021-07-13T16:24:50.342Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... individual/end-user wallets and interactive consent is crucial to all the use-cases
[2021-07-13T16:24:50.803Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:25:07.352Z]	<bumblefudge_>	Agropper: I don't agree that this addresses the consumer perspective but i think I've made my point
[2021-07-13T16:25:21.479Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:25:38.324Z]	<bumblefudge_>	1?
[2021-07-13T16:25:38.700Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q
[2021-07-13T16:25:39.763Z]	<bumblefudge_>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:25:41.950Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:25:41.986Z]	<bumblefudge_>	https://github.com/decentralized-identity/interoperability/blob/master/agenda.md#agenda---2-jun---us-time---bmwi-schaufenster-idunion-and-new-interop-targets-whakan-yildiz
[2021-07-13T16:26:05.012Z]	<bumblefudge_>	s/50million / 15 million/
[2021-07-13T16:26:15.112Z]	<bumblefudge_>	sorry, there is no automatic AI transcription, that/'s juan
[2021-07-13T16:27:13.381Z]	<bumblefudge_>	André: Sebastian Manhart, advisor for Digital Identification (BKA) created these slides
[2021-07-13T16:27:18.314Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... so I may not be able to answer all questions
[2021-07-13T16:27:51.977Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... slide1: Leyden's principles
[2021-07-13T16:28:14.606Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... slide2 - wide variety of government papers to be digitized securely and privately
[2021-07-13T16:28:31.017Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... aligned directly and primarily with the EU-wide EU-ID specifications and directives
[2021-07-13T16:28:50.640Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... which are comparable to W3C and want to be in dialogue with the W3C work
[2021-07-13T16:29:05.720Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... it's a strong public/private cooperation project, and has been quite succesful thus far
[2021-07-13T16:29:50.922Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... slide: 3 ways in which SSI supports an EU-wide data infrastructure - eID rails, privacy standards, and adoption-oriented interop
[2021-07-13T16:30:07.530Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:30:14.262Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... slide: diagram of EU ID with eIDAS 1.0 and SSI as pillars
[2021-07-13T16:30:35.818Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:30:36.878Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... slide: Angela Merkel quote
[2021-07-13T16:31:05.024Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... slide: C-levels from 19 of the biggest enterprises in Germany called into Angela's office to get cracking on an EU-interoperable identity infrastructure for Germany
[2021-07-13T16:31:07.119Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:31:25.815Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... the project jumped into action the next day (that meeting was in December 2020)
[2021-07-13T16:31:53.642Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... the Bundeskanzleramt got involved right away and is in a steering role, relying on consultancies for operational support
[2021-07-13T16:32:20.323Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... they created a public/private cooperation driven by the CHancellory but also organized into verticals, each of which has at least one major German enterprise participating
[2021-07-13T16:32:43.341Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... first pilot use case launched publicly in May: Lindner, Motel One, and Steigenberger hotel groups doing log-in
[2021-07-13T16:33:17.239Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and check-in with a Basis-ID (eIDAS-compliant Personalausweis / Personal-ID by Bundesdruckerei / Federal Mint)
[2021-07-13T16:33:50.547Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... no more paper sign-ins at hotels -- business travelers can now do check-in with company account and invoice directly
[2021-07-13T16:34:09.923Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... this is live since mid-May
[2021-07-13T16:34:22.451Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... Dorothee Bär (Digitization Ministry) photo opp
[2021-07-13T16:34:48.383Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... 2000 business travelers have already used it for logging their travels, limited as they are by Covid
[2021-07-13T16:35:24.996Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... this is integrated into many other projects, such as the projects of vSDI, the SDIKa consortium, the Bundesdruckerei Optimos 2 secure-element project
[2021-07-13T16:35:35.544Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... for on-device TPM cryptography
[2021-07-13T16:35:53.304Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... last slide: roadmap for rest of 2021 for Chancellery project
[2021-07-13T16:36:39.669Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... major items in the 2021 workplan: eiDAS-compliance feedback/specifications, explicit alignment with EU-wide eID specs as they are published,
[2021-07-13T16:36:47.607Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and pilots to test cross-border interop and use-cases
[2021-07-13T16:36:50.193Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:36:56.709Z]	<bumblefudge_>	q+
[2021-07-13T16:37:01.907Z]	<bumblefudge_>	https://github.com/decentralized-identity/interoperability/blob/master/agenda.md#agenda---2-jun---us-time---bmwi-schaufenster-idunion-and-new-interop-targets-whakan-yildiz
[2021-07-13T16:37:14.144Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack bumb
[2021-07-13T16:37:19.374Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	scribe+
[2021-07-13T16:37:36.650Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	bumblefudge_: i've posted a link to the IDUnion technical slide deck.
[2021-07-13T16:37:54.680Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	bumblefudge_: interop roadmap, did-spec, etc. in the roadmap. this could generate more questions.
[2021-07-13T16:38:03.331Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-07-13T16:38:03.906Z]	<bumblefudge_>	wyc:
[2021-07-13T16:38:04.541Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Wa
[2021-07-13T16:38:19.085Z]	<bumblefudge_>	wyc: what is the best way for people from the W3C ecosystem to get involved with the IDUnion?
[2021-07-13T16:38:36.032Z]	<bumblefudge_>	André: My favorite path would be to set up some kind of form in IDUnion for international guests and interlocutors
[2021-07-13T16:38:45.154Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-07-13T16:38:50.038Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... the IDUnion is still very much hammering out its workplan and its venues and rhythms
[2021-07-13T16:39:07.981Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... but I am personally lobbying for a prominent stage for international dialogues and collabs
[2021-07-13T16:39:20.050Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Adrian
[2021-07-13T16:39:26.753Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... having an engagement model for those dialogues will be crucial and I will come back to present once we have something like that
[2021-07-13T16:39:36.585Z]	<bumblefudge_>	AGropper: In the US, we've had pushback against digital identity
[2021-07-13T16:39:53.509Z]	<bumblefudge_>	https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2020/08/digital-identification-must-be-designed-privacy-and-equity-10
[2021-07-13T16:40:03.335Z]	<bumblefudge_>	AGropper: it's also been a states' rights issue
[2021-07-13T16:40:16.785Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... in that federal govt and states disagree on scope of federal eID and interop
[2021-07-13T16:40:22.401Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... cf RealID debates
[2021-07-13T16:40:30.840Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... is there an analogy in Germany?
[2021-07-13T16:40:41.003Z]	<bumblefudge_>	André: Well of course there is debate
[2021-07-13T16:40:52.853Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and currently public discourse has a lot of arguments against a very strong privacy stance
[2021-07-13T16:41:02.130Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... as an impediment to Covid recovery and remediation
[2021-07-13T16:41:21.084Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... what you see here is the federal government's proposal to avoid that kind of debate
[2021-07-13T16:41:36.831Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and preserve a decentralized, citizen-first privacy model for eGov and private sector use-cases
[2021-07-13T16:42:06.276Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... but we have to combat a dominant narrative in public discourse that frames the problem as privacy/GDPR versus the economy
[2021-07-13T16:42:26.358Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and there is also a strong pull of habit for giving the government full control over government (non-digitally)
[2021-07-13T16:42:49.333Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... so there is a delicate matter of adoption without playing into fears of a government-centric digital sphere
[2021-07-13T16:42:58.923Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... if you look at the election platforms of the upcoming Sept elections
[2021-07-13T16:43:14.152Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... cybersecurity and privacy and digital identity are suprisingly prominent across ALL the parties
[2021-07-13T16:43:25.895Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:43:39.965Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... digital sovereignty could actually become a major flashpoint in the election debate so far
[2021-07-13T16:44:07.885Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... wyc: thanks so much
[2021-07-13T16:44:26.378Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... André: Thanks for giving me so much time, and I hope it was useful and I will come back when I have more news and invitations to collaborations
[2021-07-13T16:44:31.512Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-07-13T16:44:37.780Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Adrian
[2021-07-13T16:44:50.457Z]	<bumblefudge_>	AGropper: i would like to hear more about the mobile driver's license issue
[2021-07-13T16:45:01.932Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-07-13T16:45:23.470Z]	<bumblefudge_>	q+
[2021-07-13T16:45:30.140Z]	<bumblefudge_>	i linked to it above
[2021-07-13T16:46:22.489Z]	<bumblefudge_>	identitywoman: there is an extensive preamble and 13 or 14 questions-- preparing a response could be a time-intensive process
[2021-07-13T16:46:28.799Z]	<Andre_Kudra>	I will drop off and leave you to your meeting. Thank you so much again!
[2021-07-13T16:46:46.033Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	Thanks Andre!
[2021-07-13T16:46:53.879Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:47:10.873Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-07-13T16:47:11.916Z]	<bumblefudge_>	IdentityWoman: I did go to the public hearing they posted
[2021-07-13T16:47:30.299Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-07-13T16:47:40.945Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... but the mDL people were there, Stanley from the ACLU (who has also publicly called out the phone-home capability built into the mDL standard)
[2021-07-13T16:47:48.436Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack bumble
[2021-07-13T16:47:48.593Z]	<bumblefudge_>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:48:12.602Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	bumblefudge_: just gonna ask, mDL standard is ISO right? ask our guest about this
[2021-07-13T16:48:24.190Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Adri
[2021-07-13T16:48:43.362Z]	<IdentityWoman>	https://www.aclu.org/report/identity-crisis-what-digital-drivers-licenses-could-mean-privacy-equity-and-freedom
[2021-07-13T16:48:45.536Z]	<bumblefudge_>	Adri: The way Kaliya framed this earlier was as a challenge to our work here
[2021-07-13T16:48:50.409Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and the standards we work on
[2021-07-13T16:48:55.618Z]	<DavidC>	q=
[2021-07-13T16:49:02.666Z]	<DavidC>	Q+
[2021-07-13T16:49:15.095Z]	<bumblefudge_>	IdenitityWoman: The mDL standard spawned something called MDoc
[2021-07-13T16:49:31.749Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... developed entirely in ISO (only accessible via national standards bodies and some very large enterprises)
[2021-07-13T16:49:50.606Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and a few companies involved in our space have access but it isn't public, it's a very proprietary place to make software
[2021-07-13T16:50:05.158Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... my personal interpretation is that there is a documentation/IAM incumbency
[2021-07-13T16:50:29.982Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... that is trying to skew the standard in a way that they will be the only vendors positioned to sell governments issuance and wallet capabilities
[2021-07-13T16:50:37.924Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and it is not interoperable with VCs or VC-based
[2021-07-13T16:50:40.732Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:50:43.177Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Heather
[2021-07-13T16:51:11.372Z]	<bumblefudge_>	Heather: Want to query the community if this could be a topic for a community work item to formulate a collective response
[2021-07-13T16:51:30.759Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... this could go a couple different ways-- do we A.) want to make a statement or response? and if so, B.) how?
[2021-07-13T16:52:16.482Z]	<mprorock>	I would note that we likely have 10 days to prepare a response
[2021-07-13T16:52:20.256Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... who would lead/manage the rpocess
[2021-07-13T16:52:21.398Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:52:42.823Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... there was a NIST response process done fairly quickly
[2021-07-13T16:52:54.463Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-07-13T16:53:01.112Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack DavidC
[2021-07-13T16:53:07.237Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack mprorock
[2021-07-13T16:53:16.396Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-07-13T16:53:20.365Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... mprorock: The reason I called it 10 days and not 17
[2021-07-13T16:53:37.097Z]	<bumblefudge_>	was that we would need to review (as chairs) any draft and bounce off the group in a reasonable time for objections
[2021-07-13T16:54:01.652Z]	<bumblefudge_>	mprorock: I am personally very committed to this so I want to know whether to work on this individually or as a community
[2021-07-13T16:54:13.214Z]	<bumblefudge_>	DavidC: I am involved in the mDL
[2021-07-13T16:54:34.853Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and I had to response to the draft ballot (an earlier work item related to mDL) and I proposed changes that would make it more interop with VCs
[2021-07-13T16:54:53.300Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and I presented it to the CCG at the time, explaining that they had good protocols but a bad data model and we had the inverse
[2021-07-13T16:55:04.667Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-07-13T16:55:12.346Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... I wanted to get a work item going to prototype some hybrid or interop test
[2021-07-13T16:55:26.107Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and the mDL v2 does actually have a reasonable chance of interop with VCs
[2021-07-13T16:55:31.352Z]	<IdentityWoman>	The JSON-LD data model or just JSON?
[2021-07-13T16:55:42.594Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... but it didn't make it into v1 because of a lack of prototyping and testing and scoping of VC interop
[2021-07-13T16:55:55.101Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... americans were in a hurry for v1 and rushed it to release without the VC work
[2021-07-13T16:56:15.519Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:56:18.139Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and there have been questions about hte "backchannel"(phone home mechanism) and that is likely to be cut in v2 because
[2021-07-13T16:56:18.353Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Adrian
[2021-07-13T16:56:21.270Z]	<mprorock>	extemely helpful, thanks David
[2021-07-13T16:56:21.693Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... of conversations within the group
[2021-07-13T16:56:52.738Z]	<bumblefudge_>	AGropper: question question: Is this a standards-org issue where ISO wants to stay out of open-source and avoid W3C or is that a red herring?
[2021-07-13T16:57:19.419Z]	<bumblefudge_>	DavidC: because it's a formal standards body, their process is very nation-state/member-state-based (ANSI, BSI, DIN, etc)
[2021-07-13T16:57:44.196Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and the publications are not free (although some standards they release are royalty-free and public, like X.509)
[2021-07-13T16:58:07.349Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... they have got some good examples (and some atrocious ones) in their history
[2021-07-13T16:58:08.337Z]	<cel>	 s/loyalty/royalty/
[2021-07-13T16:58:12.698Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:58:36.084Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... DavidC: Kaliya asked about JSON and JSONLD in the VC that mDL will interop with
[2021-07-13T16:58:50.034Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... and the answer is JSON but with an @Context - uses JWT signing
[2021-07-13T16:58:54.210Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2021-07-13T16:59:03.879Z]	<bumblefudge_>	... so the interop with mDL hinges on the JWT support
[2021-07-13T16:59:04.648Z]	<JeffO-StL>	Nice add on Adrian, ya!
[2021-07-13T16:59:14.437Z]	<bumblefudge_>	wyc: please pay attn to the mailing list to get involved
[2021-07-13T16:59:24.056Z]	<bumblefudge_>	Auf Wiedersehen, my loyalty-free friends!
