[2022-11-01T17:31:23.253Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-11-01T17:31:23.254Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-11-01T17:31:23.254Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2022-11-01T17:31:40.100Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-11-01T17:31:49.245Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-11-01T17:32:11.902Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-11-01T17:33:21.229Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis said he would be late today
[2022-11-01T17:33:35.929Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	this looks like enough people, should we go ahead and get started?
[2022-11-01T17:33:46.786Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-11-01T17:33:56.300Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-11-01T17:35:36.129Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-11-01T17:35:36.129Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2022-11-01T17:35:53.811Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Hello everyone welcome to traceability oh first we need to have a scribe.
[2022-11-01T17:35:59.765Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: And I will turn off.
[2022-11-01T17:36:02.232Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Turn off the captions.
[2022-11-01T17:36:19.599Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2022-11-01T17:37:04.156Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop
[2022-11-01T17:37:36.006Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Going thru PRs on trace interop, then vocab
[2022-11-01T17:37:58.209Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/606
[2022-11-01T17:39:07.840Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Zero PRs on interop

On trace vocab, starting with mine (merge first) 606, Array type definitions for common schemas

No objections, merging
[2022-11-01T17:39:08.355Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/601
[2022-11-01T17:40:09.648Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/602
[2022-11-01T17:40:11.361Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Russell: Food defense inspection & related schemas, credential
[2022-11-01T17:40:26.426Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-11-01T17:42:52.481Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Russell: Rename organic certificate & certificate credential
[2022-11-01T17:42:55.550Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/603
[2022-11-01T17:43:27.718Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: merge after meeting (merge conflict)
[2022-11-01T17:43:37.541Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Same story plant inspection, 603
[2022-11-01T17:44:00.085Z]	<Jim_Masloski>	present+
[2022-11-01T17:44:01.041Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/604
[2022-11-01T17:45:12.757Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/605
[2022-11-01T17:46:06.008Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: PR 604 removing lerna test from CI

Since we already have the line for Jest

Two approvals on 604... merging

605, move claims to credential subject for certification of origin

SInce these are parts of claims, this moves into credential subject

Objections? ...merging 605
[2022-11-01T17:46:15.113Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/608
[2022-11-01T17:47:47.931Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/609
[2022-11-01T17:47:48.567Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Nis objection
[2022-11-01T17:47:57.220Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Russell: Will check with Mike, change
[2022-11-01T17:47:59.741Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	present+
[2022-11-01T17:48:30.590Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: 609, entity -> organization

Objections? Merging
[2022-11-01T17:48:39.283Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/610
[2022-11-01T17:49:45.267Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: 610, from me

We were declaring attrs for credential subject outside of wrapper

I came up with diff approach, but feedback suggested change, this is making that change

Merging 610
[2022-11-01T17:50:15.974Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2022-11-01T17:50:28.715Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
[2022-11-01T17:50:41.192Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Switching to trace interop issues, only 15

first is 405, support for SD-JWT
[2022-11-01T17:51:35.372Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Hasn't had document in w3c that'd allow it to represent w3c creds

So no action, just waiting to see if they make SD-JWT standards compliant for w3c

I don't expect this to be implemented any time soon
[2022-11-01T17:52:05.196Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/448
[2022-11-01T17:52:43.794Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: No action to take then, leaving comment

Issue 448, Nis, not on call

Issue we found with interop and conformance test, looks like open and merged so unsure if addressed
[2022-11-01T17:52:52.977Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/449
[2022-11-01T17:52:54.795Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Pinged Nis to ask if resolved, can move on
[2022-11-01T17:53:16.922Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	+1
[2022-11-01T17:53:25.210Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: 449, same thing, merge conflict & need to ask Nis
[2022-11-01T17:53:47.994Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Pinging Nis again
[2022-11-01T17:53:47.998Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/427
[2022-11-01T17:53:59.438Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: 427, opened by Orie
[2022-11-01T17:56:24.995Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: In our tests two DID methods, DID key & DID web

New, JWK, even simpler than DID key

Can often implement with 0, 1 dependency - nice

Wanted to raise awareness abt possibility of DID JWK rather than DID Key

A question for folks implementing DID methods, would you prefer to only support DID Web? DID Web and DID Key? Or DID Web and DID JWK?

Comments?
[2022-11-01T17:56:54.346Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Do we want to have list of specific DID methods, "trace interoep API expects these several DID methods"?
[2022-11-01T17:57:02.983Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	q+ clarity
[2022-11-01T17:57:16.197Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Require DID Web today. Question is i we want anything else?
[2022-11-01T17:58:18.559Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/431
[2022-11-01T17:58:19.638Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Paul: Want clarity, most important

Have section that makes it clear what sections are required
[2022-11-01T17:58:32.285Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Moving on, 431, Chris
[2022-11-01T17:59:08.892Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: This is placeholder, discussed several weeks ago

I've been out for several weeks, haven't worked on anything
[2022-11-01T17:59:23.218Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Noting you were out and will follow up
[2022-11-01T17:59:27.898Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/364
[2022-11-01T17:59:29.022Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Self-assigning
[2022-11-01T17:59:37.717Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Next, issue 364
[2022-11-01T18:00:23.662Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Been around a while, purpose make sure we don't lose track of need for browsable index of test results

Currently store by date, but don't have easy method of navigating through those test results
[2022-11-01T18:00:30.236Z]	<nis>	present+
[2022-11-01T18:00:34.502Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/371
[2022-11-01T18:01:09.772Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Moving on to PR 371
[2022-11-01T18:01:32.356Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: This one, we should publish minutes to mailing list, link to that in minutes, as other groups do
[2022-11-01T18:01:40.869Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/402
[2022-11-01T18:01:52.939Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: If no issue to raise by anyone, moving on
[2022-11-01T18:02:08.363Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: 402, Orie, who just left

Nis?
[2022-11-01T18:03:00.789Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: No, though great idea

Will make ticket for self, so don't overlook it
[2022-11-01T18:03:02.769Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/359
[2022-11-01T18:03:09.840Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Continuing on to 359
[2022-11-01T18:03:41.411Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Another placeholder. We need a few additional tests for positive testing, assigned to me, adding comment
[2022-11-01T18:03:49.216Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/307
[2022-11-01T18:04:46.626Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/363
[2022-11-01T18:04:50.903Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: 307, top level README, assigning self + making internal ticket

363
[2022-11-01T18:05:30.641Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Another one on plate when left, need better links to Postman collections for performance reliability

This modifies READMEs so are coherent, link in similar way to Postman collections
[2022-11-01T18:05:38.867Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/438
[2022-11-01T18:06:31.727Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: On to 438

Orie, open wallet foundation, opportunity to collaborate?

Don't know, pinging Orie
[2022-11-01T18:07:12.074Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ted: You could make this special agenda item to bubble to top next time before Orie's conflict startss
[2022-11-01T18:07:31.430Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/439
[2022-11-01T18:07:39.721Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Adding note & pinging in Slack

Next 439
[2022-11-01T18:08:15.800Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Came from recent decision for manual scribing, need to update READMEs to document manual scribe procedure
[2022-11-01T18:08:19.143Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/401
[2022-11-01T18:08:35.207Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: 401, Nis?
[2022-11-01T18:09:32.190Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: I think we can close, with comment
[2022-11-01T18:09:39.453Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/447
[2022-11-01T18:10:19.325Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Last issue in trace intereop, 447

Another conflict bn conformance and interop

Some discussion on ticket

Conflict bn JWTs, JSON-LDs on credentials
[2022-11-01T18:10:36.067Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Initial issue, did not allow VCs to be string in conformance testss
[2022-11-01T18:11:09.945Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Decided to leave, bc still would throw error
[2022-11-01T18:11:47.198Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: This is a negative test, designed to fail, or request is designed to fail so this should pass
[2022-11-01T18:12:23.132Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: So we get a string, take a look, say "does this parse as JWT"
[2022-11-01T18:13:18.259Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: That's my suggestion for [?]. This should fail regardless though. Literal string not a valid value, so req should fail, test should pass
[2022-11-01T18:14:32.682Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/448
[2022-11-01T18:14:36.543Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Action item, follow up see if we can address
[2022-11-01T18:14:37.701Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/449
[2022-11-01T18:15:16.592Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Nis, two you were pinged for, 448 and 449
[2022-11-01T18:16:15.169Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2022-11-01T18:16:33.673Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/521
[2022-11-01T18:18:04.146Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/427
[2022-11-01T18:18:07.879Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: That concludes trace interop issues

Switching to trace vocab issues, by least recently updated

521, from Orie, traceability credential VC

Mentioned 7 days ago in VC data model

I believe this is being talked about

Let's leave it there
[2022-11-01T18:18:16.202Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: Next, 427, Ted?
[2022-11-01T18:21:03.805Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ted: We've got a bunch of fake data, trying to be fake but not going in right direction to be fake

Bunch of stuff with area code 555. Way we should do it, 555 in middle section, local exchange

Street names, become "example street", "example colorado"

Fake but real enough that any test to see if right thing

Suggestion for first 3 digits, use actual area codes

Generating fake data difficult
[2022-11-01T18:21:44.579Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q+
[2022-11-01T18:22:28.433Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ted: With phone numbers, people run tests
[2022-11-01T18:23:48.878Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Russell: Would prefer not to sync first 3 digits with cities
[2022-11-01T18:24:31.491Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Cell phones very frequently do not match the actual location
[2022-11-01T18:25:48.530Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Echoing Russell and Nis, don't think it's worth the hassle of looking up area codes

Could be cell number

So long as use 555 in middle

So long as test system that'll break if fake number doesn't have real area code, that's the problem
[2022-11-01T18:26:47.742Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: I'll post minutes
