[2023-05-09T17:31:07.248Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2023-05-09T17:31:08.003Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-05-09T17:31:29.314Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	present+
[2023-05-09T17:31:39.355Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-05-09T17:32:18.421Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	present+
[2023-05-09T17:32:21.567Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-05-09T17:32:34.495Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-05-09T17:33:23.770Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/actions/workflows/cd.yml
[2023-05-09T17:33:42.671Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-05-09T17:33:42.672Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-05-09T17:33:53.593Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/actions/runs/4869710877/jobs/8684556363#step:10:217
[2023-05-09T17:33:58.061Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	scribe+
[2023-05-09T17:33:58.413Z]	<Orie>	rate limit exceeded
[2023-05-09T17:34:10.281Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: All right welcome to Chris Cole May 9th 23 IPR note please make sure anyone can participate any substantive contributions need to be people have signed the ccg work.
[2023-05-09T17:34:24.534Z]	<Orie>	Seems it can be fixed by removing the github release
[2023-05-09T17:34:25.236Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: welcome to thr trace call, IPR note, in order to make any contributions make sure you have signed the agreement
[2023-05-09T17:34:34.764Z]	<Orie>	or by being smarter about how we do releasres
[2023-05-09T17:34:47.195Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2023-05-09T17:34:50.963Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: There are no pr's on trace-interop, there are PR's on trace-vocab
[2023-05-09T17:34:55.722Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/736
[2023-05-09T17:35:36.168Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c/vc-jwt/pull/77
[2023-05-09T17:35:50.527Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: I spent some time on this, it's still upstream. So i'm not spending time on that PR until i have a better idea of the path forward. Mike P make a PR on VC-JWT that's blocking. If that can go through it will help it along.
[2023-05-09T17:36:07.141Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/766
[2023-05-09T17:36:49.234Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-05-09T17:37:08.869Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: This is minor tweaks to the MTR after using it with real data. A couple chemicals missing. The product description is always a single product and a fix to the description of measurements. And steel grade is a string.
[2023-05-09T17:37:22.336Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/768
[2023-05-09T17:37:22.795Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: It looks like it has approvals, merging.
[2023-05-09T17:38:40.287Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/769
[2023-05-09T17:39:05.714Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ben: This is adding syntax sugar to credentialSchema. Looks like it has tabs and spaces issues. I can fix and merge out of band.
[2023-05-09T17:40:15.675Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: This is a PR to make a credential which adds an identifier from an external system. Think of a blackbody system where the identifiers are internal.
[2023-05-09T17:40:32.442Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Russell: I did something similar, but I have problems with the complications, so I think I dropped this.
[2023-05-09T17:41:42.323Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: I think there are some requirements in what you said that are really important. So I think that the id's you're using are not a graph-node identifiers. I think you also want to give a name to this identifiers. So I non-graph-node identifier. You need an identifier can be any string and a name for anything. And these are provided with schema.org
[2023-05-09T17:42:06.885Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: So why are we definition our own terms, when we can use Thing?
[2023-05-09T17:42:39.903Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: I was trying to use Identifier, I didn't realize there was Thing. I can change this to Thing, and ping you guys to review.
[2023-05-09T17:43:28.994Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: Also I think this is a "Thing" credential and just make it generic. I could be useful.
[2023-05-09T17:44:13.308Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	MahMoud: There are no PR's on trace-interop, this week is trace-vocab week. Do we want to goto issues, or is there anything we want to bring up?
[2023-05-09T17:44:50.769Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/457
[2023-05-09T17:44:52.918Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/457
[2023-05-09T17:44:53.647Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: Can we address the scope issue on trace-interop. I think GS1 is still blocked on that, and I wanted to check where we on that issue. I think Chris came away with some action item, but I don't remember the specific details.
[2023-05-09T17:45:53.305Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/217
[2023-05-09T17:46:46.458Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: This is the roadmap, which I wanted to bring up. What is out concrete plan to getting from where we are today to a v1.0 spec to say it's not fully locked down, but it's reasonably stable.
[2023-05-09T17:47:37.358Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: 1. Do we want to wait for a vc 2.0 context, 2. do we want to publish on the w3c? 3. how complete are we really, how many more changes do we have?
[2023-05-09T17:48:00.322Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: That way we can try to put down a deadline around locking down v1.
[2023-05-09T17:48:23.092Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: This is aligned with the CD process. We should trun off the github releases, since we're not using them.
[2023-05-09T17:49:44.650Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: As far as publishing them, I expect a high availability server that hosts the context file and never changes ever. The vocabulary side of it, it can drift around. I think all we need to do is host our context file that's permanent and stable. What you don't want is context drift. And we want to make sure that's mature and not going to change/
[2023-05-09T17:50:06.494Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: The reality is that it's an on-going process and it's going to change.
[2023-05-09T17:51:34.527Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: I agree to all of that, let's talk about getting to that small v1 that's stable that will not change. We separate by verticals, and we say that review each one of the credentials in that veridical , we look at the terms and say these are signed off. And then when we look at those and make a cut off date to say that we expect the context to be published by a certain date.
[2023-05-09T17:52:10.572Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: To be clear, we publish a single context as v1, and we build that from credentials we believe has maternity. And everything else moves somewhere else.
[2023-05-09T17:52:50.884Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: So we have a development version with on-going changes. And then we have a fixed version with the v1 terms. Do we think this is a path forward towards a fixed v1?
[2023-05-09T17:53:23.716Z]	<nis>	q+
[2023-05-09T17:54:06.912Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: We can commit to that on the Transmute side for the steel-tech demo to make those permanent. We could do what GS1 did where they split their contexts files and intentionally made them very small for that one credential. For Paul, do you think we should try to make them smaller or make one larger context?
[2023-05-09T17:54:12.819Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Paul: One second?
[2023-05-09T17:54:59.554Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: As someone who is consuming the context, I find it hard to use, as I would like to have everything in one larger to context. I queued to say, we don't want to change, but can we add?
[2023-05-09T17:55:04.482Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: That's a no-no
[2023-05-09T17:55:50.363Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Paul: We broke it up with the way we have things today. In this case it might make sense to have instances for steel or gas, but then where do you put the common stuff. So that might make things harder if you have a lot of common vocabulary?
[2023-05-09T17:56:24.018Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: This has come up a lot in the v2 credentials context? Will the v2 define everything, or do we want to make a more layered approach where it could be more files.
[2023-05-09T17:56:47.118Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: Is there a way to set up n umbrella context that refers to other ones?
[2023-05-09T17:57:14.425Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: You can, but it's not an elegant way to do because the document loader is always chaining.
[2023-05-09T17:57:35.564Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: We could do both, we could have industry versus common, or one with everything.
[2023-05-09T17:57:49.021Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: It just speaks to when you build the context what are you trying to do?
[2023-05-09T17:58:29.473Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: I think from where we are today and the best cut of V1, let's pick the credentials that are ready, let's put them in a context with the terms that they need. If we find there are issues and we need to have more layers, we can push that as another version.
[2023-05-09T17:58:52.911Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: Other than the context questions, is there anything else we see as a deal breaker before we can pushing the v1?
[2023-05-09T17:59:03.584Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: There's the JSON Schema side as well, that also needs versioning
[2023-05-09T17:59:25.883Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: For that I guess we set up a folder for as of v1 this is the state of these credentials.
[2023-05-09T17:59:59.556Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: I would publish all of the schemas both as a a directory and a bundled archive. And we publish potentially outside of github.
[2023-05-09T18:00:48.874Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: Or we can create a Github repository that is immediately archived. But if people are getting them, Github might rate limit, so we might want to have something that's stable and reliable.
[2023-05-09T18:01:36.028Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Going to have to drop
[2023-05-09T18:01:39.471Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: What i hear from Mike is they're ready to go. On our end, we're ready to say these credentials are ready. It looks like Transmute is ready to do that to. And we need to publish static JSON schema files, and publish the context on a high availability web server.
[2023-05-09T18:02:24.397Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: Thinking through the mechanics of this, we might want to handcraft a version 1 repository of this in order to confirm what it will look like to have a sanity check that it's reasonable.
[2023-05-09T18:03:10.672Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: We are thinking that everything is built, it's going to be a superset of v1. So we make it a fixed version, and we make it so you can't push changes to the schemas or context.
[2023-05-09T18:03:34.344Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: At the start, we need to do a dry run of it to make sure that nothing is wrong when doing that.
[2023-05-09T18:04:02.809Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: We're constantly doing that. We can say that what we're committing to now is what we're publishing.
[2023-05-09T18:04:52.084Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: For that window, i still think that we want to look through every schema, every credential, every term. Make sure required and optional fields are correct.
[2023-05-09T18:05:00.371Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Paul: Is this going to be done in a branch?
[2023-05-09T18:05:45.261Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: We're going to do it on the current branch, we going to have a cut off date for no more changes after a certain date. We probably have to look at schema.org. Or the JSON schema files.
[2023-05-09T18:06:04.294Z]	<Orie>	sry i need to drop
[2023-05-09T18:06:06.054Z]	<Orie>	good luck
[2023-05-09T18:08:38.415Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: How do we want to version this? The way many LD libraries are versioned in with a year stamp, would that work here?
[2023-05-09T18:09:22.349Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: I think a lot of people hate the year. Because it makes a lot of sense to normal versions. Because we have 2018 v1 and it's everywhere, and then they're just switching to V2. We can add that as a question on the issue.
[2023-05-09T18:09:50.855Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-05-09T18:11:23.657Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: I think we closed 297 because of no volunteers. And we left this open, but no one is raising their hand for it.
[2023-05-09T18:11:40.319Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/300
[2023-05-09T18:12:08.663Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: We've gone another way on the observations. We've sort of denormalized the observations, which is easier for the common folks to use.
[2023-05-09T18:12:53.289Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: Personally I've hated working with it as it's just generic. And I find that alot of documents don't map to a generic way of working with these. And if you have to do custom logic anyways. So we might just close this issue.
[2023-05-09T18:13:17.573Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/304
[2023-05-09T18:15:02.948Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ben: For this, do we want to have an enum, or a format to try and get people to use a country code. When I use this, I find myself putting in the country name more often than not.
[2023-05-09T18:15:49.206Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: The scope of the issue was just to open an issue on schema.org. Ben have you been typing in the country name?
[2023-05-09T18:16:06.541Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	ben: Yeah. it's just a string value and I find myself typing in the name more often than not.
[2023-05-09T18:16:10.575Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/555
[2023-05-09T18:16:31.802Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: Okay I think we're using country codes, but it it's not working as intended we might pass on this.
[2023-05-09T18:17:11.344Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: For issue 555 it's marked as ready for PR. Do we have any volunteers?
[2023-05-09T18:17:32.953Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ben: For this, i think that trace-able presentations has caught on. Is there any appetite for this?
[2023-05-09T18:17:39.688Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/546
[2023-05-09T18:17:45.611Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: So basically it has legs, Nis opened it. Nis is it okay to close?
[2023-05-09T18:17:49.438Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: yeah, close it.
[2023-05-09T18:19:55.422Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: this issue to was to break it out into smaller issues. If there are no hard requirements for a scenario that we're using, i think we want to close it.
[2023-05-09T18:20:11.491Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/306
[2023-05-09T18:20:19.430Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ben: Agreed, I'll write a comment.
[2023-05-09T18:21:13.463Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://onerecord.iata.org/ontology/webvowl/index.html#
[2023-05-09T18:21:44.281Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: I put a link to WebVOWL. There is an example in a comment i wrote. I think it needs a server to run. You can click one, see what it's touching, and drag it around. It's pretty, but I don't know what it does.
[2023-05-09T18:23:23.591Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: I think the question originally came from Vlad. He wanted to see where our terms defined. Which ones are we defining ourselves, and which ones are we reusing? It's a sales argument for the work we do here. I'm getting pushback from getting called a vocabulary since people think we're trying to re-define all of the terms. So this is good to say, "these are the existing terms that we're already using"
[2023-05-09T18:24:08.607Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: So what we need to say is that we're not defining 600 terms, we're actually using 400 existing terms. I'm personally not running into these problems, so I don't know how useful they would be.
[2023-05-09T18:24:15.939Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/526
[2023-05-09T18:24:27.402Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	present+
[2023-05-09T18:25:31.534Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/374
[2023-05-09T18:25:31.885Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: For this one, the readme's are way out of date for the PR's and we could have one referencing the other. And it might be easier to have one link to the other where  only one of them is the source of truth. I notice that everytime i do the hosting the IPR note is on the trace side on the not the vocab side.
[2023-05-09T18:26:15.499Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: This is a big picture issue about how do i reference a different credential, or a product that is not in this credential.
[2023-05-09T18:26:26.898Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: I think i suggested using related link.
[2023-05-09T18:27:18.021Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: If i have an event credential and I need to reference a product id. So I could put in a product link, but someone changes that. So it has the same problem.
[2023-05-09T18:27:55.063Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: In this case there is an id which is did:web and the related link is for the identifier for where do you need to go to find out about it.
[2023-05-09T18:28:46.120Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: So I would have a purchase order, you would have related link. Wait, the example doesn't make sense. I want to have something that's a hash link or similar.
[2023-05-09T18:29:04.941Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Can we go through that with an example?
[2023-05-09T18:30:38.056Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: At the very top, we have a uri that points to a VC. And that works except that doesn't prevent anyone hosting the data from changing the information that. So I have a product, and someone hosting that changes it. My event will point to the same thing, but the thing i'm talking about has changed. So we need a hash link so things break when things have changed. it adds to complexity. and it not standardized.
[2023-05-09T18:30:43.706Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: How does that work?
[2023-05-09T18:31:22.453Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/blob/main/docs/openapi/components/schemas/common/ExternalResource.yml
[2023-05-09T18:31:53.299Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: You add the link, but you add a hash and then end of the url, and when you resolve that url if the hash doesn't match, you don't trust that resource. In the vocabulary we call it an external resource. We're doing it for images, but we're not using it for other things. But if it works for images, it should work for anything.
[2023-05-09T18:32:48.994Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	scribe-
