[2024-04-22T15:00:01.843Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar_(NTT_DATA)> agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2024Apr/0006.html
[2024-04-22T15:00:02.843Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar_(NTT_DATA)> Organizers: Dmitri_Zagidulin, Simone_Ravaioli, Ildiko_Mazar

[2024-04-22T15:00:18.144Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar_(NTT_DATA)>	Hello everyone, welcome to today's Verifiable Credentials for Education task force call. Let's start with the usual IP Note: Anyone can participate in these calls. However, all substantive contributors to any CCG Work Items must be members of the CCG with full IPR agreements signed. Please note that these meetings are recorded. We have a robot transcriber and we also do an audio and a video recording. If you want to speak, please raise your hand, or type ‚Äúq+‚Äù in the chat to add yourself to the queue.
[2024-04-22T15:05:18.144Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar_(NTT_DATA)>	If we have any new people in the call, or somebody who would like to reintroduce themselves, please feel free to take the floor. If nobody wants to take the floor, we can move on to the main agenda topic, that are reflections from the 2024 Trusted Learner Network Unconference and the Internet identity workshop.

[2024-04-22T15:10:18.144Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	i'll say a few words on trust registries etc
[2024-04-22T15:10:26.721Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2024-04-22T15:10:38.866Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	thanks for the insights Simone!
[2024-04-22T15:10:42.436Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar_(NTT_DATA)>	@Simone, can you elaborate on the academics' feedback?
[2024-04-22T15:10:52.146Z]	<Laura_Paglione>	present+
[2024-04-22T15:10:57.500Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar_(NTT_DATA)>	Were they appreciating the MC schema mapping or rather suspicious.
[2024-04-22T15:11:21.289Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab>	q+
[2024-04-22T15:12:03.319Z]	<Nate_Otto>	q+
[2024-04-22T15:13:35.147Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	q+ to mention the T3 Spring meeting
[2024-04-22T15:14:16.137Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-04-22T15:17:50.320Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar_(NTT_DATA)>	Good question about _whether_ we really need the trusted issuer list. In Europe we solve that Gordian knot by requiring an advanced or qualified electronic seal from the issuer, that contains information about the organisation's legal registration.
[2024-04-22T15:19:02.470Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-04-22T15:20:42.493Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	@Ildiko, that is fine for official "institutions" but probably would need explainers for issuers who are not.
[2024-04-22T15:21:56.207Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	Kim was THE OG!
[2024-04-22T15:22:00.028Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Founding Co-Chair
[2024-04-22T15:22:42.388Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q?
[2024-04-22T15:22:44.333Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	I ran across a great IIW recap on LinkedIn, calling out the various threads of Trust Registries in bullets... anyone found it ?
[2024-04-22T15:22:56.905Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	ack dmi
[2024-04-22T15:23:00.548Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	ack colin
[2024-04-22T15:23:28.250Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	haha thanks Colin, I was totally focusing just on the technical side. (need more coffee :) )
[2024-04-22T15:25:14.253Z]	<Laura_Paglione>	Quick reminder that IIW always publishes their proceedings. They are not yet published for the most recent workshop, but all of them can be found here: https://internetidentityworkshop.com/past-workshops/
[2024-04-22T15:26:15.426Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	q?
[2024-04-22T15:27:09.930Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	YAY Interoperability!
[2024-04-22T15:27:44.199Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar_(NTT_DATA)>	@Sharon, indeed by applying the eSeal requirement, the EU restricts who can formally issue a credential - the Issuer here would always have to be a legally registered organisation, however we allow Awarding bodies to be any entity, they just need to mandate a legally registered Agent to seal and issue the credentials on the Awarding body's behalf.
[2024-04-22T15:27:51.623Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2024-04-22T15:28:11.573Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	ack nate
[2024-04-22T15:28:47.533Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	hahahah baby steps, right -- holder identity is really hard! :)
[2024-04-22T15:29:27.841Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	oooh, +1 Nate, more credentials need to be issued at conferences etc!
[2024-04-22T15:30:05.708Z]	<Susan_Stroud>	q+
[2024-04-22T15:30:15.638Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	ack simone
[2024-04-22T15:30:17.057Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q-
[2024-04-22T15:30:18.896Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2024-04-22T15:30:37.040Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2024-04-22T15:31:48.914Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab>	GDN Annual Meeting: https://groningendeclaration.org/gdn-am-2024/
[2024-04-22T15:32:29.183Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab>	Recap of the T3 Spring Meeting from ASU/TLN: https://www.uschamberfoundation.org/workforce/t3-network-spring-meeting-sets-the-stage-for-more-innovation
[2024-04-22T15:32:53.942Z]	<charles>	present+
[2024-04-22T15:33:01.613Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q?
[2024-04-22T15:33:09.380Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	ack susan
[2024-04-22T15:33:15.184Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2024-04-22T15:34:24.458Z]	<Nate_Otto>	Also this fall in Paris November 6-8 is the open-recognition-focused ePIC Conference https://epic.openrecognition.org/ Call for proposals now open.
[2024-04-22T15:34:25.967Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q?
[2024-04-22T15:34:38.138Z]	<charles>	present+
[2024-04-22T15:36:26.790Z]	<Eric_Shepherd>	I found this interesting from Google Wallet holding driving licenses in Colorado: 
https://dmv.colorado.gov/colorado-id-in-google-wallet
[2024-04-22T15:36:28.528Z]	<charles>	present+
[2024-04-22T15:39:13.879Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	This is a recap of IIW36 by TOIP - https://trustoverip.org/blog/2023/04/28/internet-identity-workshop-36-in-review/
[2024-04-22T15:41:51.252Z]	<Chandi>	present+
[2024-04-22T15:43:18.794Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q?
[2024-04-22T15:43:25.793Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	ack dmitri
[2024-04-22T15:43:44.707Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2024-04-22T15:46:13.443Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	ack kerri
[2024-04-22T15:46:31.705Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	I realized that recap is from last year - a testimony that Registries have been hot for a while.

There was definetly a "Trust Registry Face Off" @ #iiw38 Sam Curren, Mathieu Glaude, discussing x509s, Credential Trust Establishment, Northern Blocks DNSSec based approach, EBSI Trust Chains, Trust Registry Protocol, OIDF, and other efforts.
[2024-04-22T15:47:17.189Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	yeah! looking forward to the notes from that being published!
[2024-04-22T15:47:33.190Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks!
[2024-04-22T15:47:36.874Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q?
[2024-04-22T15:47:40.055Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	@Simone - I wonder what time has taught us about which of those still exists and would win if there were a rematch today.
[2024-04-22T15:47:40.733Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	I also think that the real work on real trust registries and more importantly directories of trust registires - Lucy Yan has done was not as well seen.
[2024-04-22T15:48:09.529Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Once we get rolling, we can present to the community and then do updates as we go.
[2024-04-22T15:48:50.668Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	What kind of research?
[2024-04-22T15:49:22.770Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	@Kaliya - will follow up with you & Lucy
[2024-04-22T15:49:54.644Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	https://github.com/undp/Regi-TRUST
[2024-04-22T15:50:45.025Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	https://www.sparkblue.org/Regi-TRUST
[2024-04-22T15:50:45.299Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	well said !
[2024-04-22T15:51:26.047Z]	<Susan_Stroud>	Linux's Open Wallet Foundation is another active registry
[2024-04-22T15:51:46.999Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	thanks all!
[2024-04-22T15:51:54.817Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	Thanks!
[2024-04-22T15:51:56.374Z]	<Naomi>	Thanks!
[2024-04-22T15:51:57.359Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks!
[2024-04-22T15:52:01.909Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Thank you all !
[2024-04-22T15:52:15.548Z]	<Taylor,_LEF>	üôå Ty Ty
[2024-04-22T15:52:47.770Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
