[2022-05-24T20:00:24.374Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2022-05-24T20:01:04.085Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2022-05-24T20:01:08.801Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2022-05-24T20:02:27.509Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2022-05-24T20:02:57.847Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2022-05-24T20:03:42.806Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	VC-EDU plugfest: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/plugfest-1-2022/
[2022-05-24T20:04:08.482Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	Original VC-EDU plugfest invitation email: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022May/0009.html
[2022-05-24T20:04:27.312Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-05-24T20:04:27.312Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: vcapi
[2022-05-24T20:04:51.473Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022May/0045.html
[2022-05-24T20:05:03.275Z]	<Logan_Porter>	present+
[2022-05-24T20:05:03.724Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right welcome everyone to the May 24th 2022 VC verifiable credential API call our agenda is here on the agenda today is just a lot of issue processing basically.
[2022-05-24T20:05:21.498Z]	<Ananay>	present+
[2022-05-24T20:05:22.547Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Going to talk a bit about revocation lists supported crypto sweets for a Shore endpoints nature being optional has a lot to do just with the issuer API endpoint unsupported issuers and in things of that nature.
[2022-05-24T20:05:30.073Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Any other updates or changes to the agenda before we get started.
[2022-05-24T20:05:34.726Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	q+ use cases update
[2022-05-24T20:05:36.672Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2022-05-24T20:05:39.665Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay go ahead Eric.
[2022-05-24T20:06:06.572Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack eric
[2022-05-24T20:06:10.989Z]	<Transcriber>	Eric_Schuh: Yeah just been a couple weeks just want to give a quick update on where the use cases team is at so we're still in the process of reviewing the sequence diagrams as part of that it became necessary for me and Joe to reach out to the original authors so it's taking a little bit longer than I had originally hoped but we're through the first three use cases I think for at least a second pass will be.
[2022-05-24T20:06:11.517Z]	<Transcriber>	Eric_Schuh: Canoeing with the next three.
[2022-05-24T20:06:20.798Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	s/Canoeing/Continuing/
[2022-05-24T20:06:39.454Z]	<Transcriber>	Eric_Schuh: If you wrote one of those you will probably be hearing from either me or Joe the email just with any questions that came up and I think the way it's feeling to me is after we're done with that review with authors that will be the right time to bring those back to the group and they'll be at least somewhat stable at that point so going to be another couple weeks I think for that but that's where we're at.
[2022-05-24T20:06:46.152Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay great awesome thank you Eric for the update and thank you for continuing to work on that.
[2022-05-24T20:06:57.690Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so I guess our next are kind of action from that it's just you're going to let us know when you're when you have them updated.
[2022-05-24T20:07:09.138Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2022-05-24T20:07:15.360Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So I know that there's a you know you've got a kind of a there's a bug with the mermaid diagram renderer thing I am going to be unable to get to that for probably about three weeks or more so my apologies but it shouldn't it just makes it.
[2022-05-24T20:07:26.298Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Little uglier it doesn't you know it doesn't it just puts more vertical space than I think we'd like and there's some weird CSS things that are going on with it.
[2022-05-24T20:07:31.908Z]	<Justin_Richer>	present+
[2022-05-24T20:07:33.583Z]	<Transcriber>	Eric_Schuh: Yeah it's mostly a white space issue so do nothing functional that I've found.
[2022-05-24T20:07:46.594Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay great okay well let's go ahead and go into kind of a now we are kind of in announcements announcements and.
[2022-05-24T20:07:47.936Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Announcements and Introductions
[2022-05-24T20:07:55.173Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Anyone need to call anyone would like to introduce themselves or reintroduce themselves.
[2022-05-24T20:08:04.194Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: See on an ace new I don't know if you'd like to provide a provide an intro background on you.
[2022-05-24T20:08:11.137Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's fine if you don't and just want to stay quiet.
[2022-05-24T20:08:30.299Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay I think the rest of us the rest of us all know each other we've been on these calls for a while any announcements other than the use cases one we just heard from.
[2022-05-24T20:08:49.250Z]	<Ananay>	Hi, sorry can not open mic rn, but Hi everyone, I just Joined W3c and will be in your care.
[2022-05-24T20:08:55.711Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay if not we can go ahead and get into the agenda before we do that you know apologies I have not well I guess it's for those of you that might have missed the this ECG weekly call.
[2022-05-24T20:09:11.322Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Oh hey on an ageist introduced themselves can't do a mic right now but just join w3c wonderful welcome and welcome to the group.
[2022-05-24T20:09:43.003Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: As many of you know the the charter vote for the verifiable credentials working group and the data set canonicalization working groups out right now I've been prodding a couple of w3c members in at this point it looks like we have the minimum votes necessary for working group be created I can't say the numbers because those are I think member confidential.
[2022-05-24T20:09:43.311Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  but we're.
[2022-05-24T20:10:01.968Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Pretty well with you know week to go for the verifiable credentials one and two weeks left in the boat for the rdf dataset canonicalization stuff so that's going well okay onto our issues.
[2022-05-24T20:10:07.553Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Should this API define how to host revocation lists?
[2022-05-24T20:10:16.253Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/232
[2022-05-24T20:10:23.750Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: First one up is should this API Define how to host revocation lists this is issue 232 and was brought up by Ori actually let me go ahead and share my screen here.
[2022-05-24T20:10:29.459Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So we've got.
[2022-05-24T20:10:40.010Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so Ori ask the question.
[2022-05-24T20:11:10.865Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Currently revocation list 2020 and the status list 2021 stuff assumes that the list is hosted somewhere the VC API provides no way of obtaining that credential the the list so the question is should the VC API Define how to host revocation lists Marcus.
[2022-05-24T20:11:11.088Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  so I believe.
[2022-05-24T20:11:18.736Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's out of scope so maybe we could start with your position Marcus and then we can kind of go from there.
[2022-05-24T20:11:28.840Z]	<Transcriber>	Markus_Sabadello: So I don't fully remember this but I but I think.
[2022-05-24T20:11:42.501Z]	<Transcriber>	Markus_Sabadello: My idea was that a revocation list is something that's specific to one type of revocation mechanism or one cadential status Michael is ruined.
[2022-05-24T20:11:47.265Z]	<Transcriber>	Markus_Sabadello: Transferring me to define something.
[2022-05-24T20:11:54.355Z]	<Transcriber>	Markus_Sabadello: That that's specific to one mechanism and not universally applicable but.
[2022-05-24T20:11:59.939Z]	<Transcriber>	Markus_Sabadello: But I don't I don't completely remember that issue.
[2022-05-24T20:12:06.506Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right thanks.
[2022-05-24T20:12:37.602Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So I think there's some later comments on this issue about trying to reduce the having the verifier contact the issuer or hit an endpoint generally to try and increase privacy one of the things that's in the design for revocation lists is to express them as credentials and that would allow a verifier to request when they're requesting It Whatever credential they're requesting they could also.
[2022-05-24T20:12:37.901Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  West the.
[2022-05-24T20:13:10.072Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: And lest credential at the same time which would allow the holder to pull that information directly from the issuer and they can keep a cache copy or do whatever it is they want to presumably that would this be C would have to be fresh enough / the road whatever the verifier requires but they could respond to a VPR and include the revocation list credential along with whatever credential.
[2022-05-24T20:13:10.437Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  uses it and that would be.
[2022-05-24T20:13:15.220Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: To handle the privacy-preserving aspect of this.
[2022-05-24T20:13:24.364Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: If I Had You.
[2022-05-24T20:14:02.462Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah for for both the relocation and the refresh I think there was a sense at least I believe I advocated for it that these are points of extensibility but we should probably have one example so that people can see how the whole stack works together like I think a lot of people don't understand how you can do relocation at all without the phone home problem so I think I have had a sense that we there was some agreement.
[2022-05-24T20:14:02.768Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  not that it would be good to have at least one example.
[2022-05-24T20:14:09.582Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Both those mechanisms in scope for us to figure out.
[2022-05-24T20:14:19.249Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	q+
[2022-05-24T20:14:20.068Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Think Joe me any other thoughts on this item.
[2022-05-24T20:14:24.540Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Eric.
[2022-05-24T20:14:54.806Z]	<Transcriber>	Eric_Schuh: Yeah I think it's echoing what Joe is just saying but I was thinking it'd be if we do want to support this very nice to have a use case because currently I don't think any of the identified use cases call-out revocation in any way so if we could either work it into one of the existing ones or if someone could write a good example of a revocation use case that would make use of this that would probably be helpful in framing.
[2022-05-24T20:14:55.229Z]	<Transcriber>	Eric_Schuh:  whether or not it is in or out of school for.
[2022-05-24T20:15:09.195Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-05-24T20:15:12.224Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack eric
[2022-05-24T20:15:33.198Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so let's see we do have well yeah right so all that all that's good stuff we do have I think the the hesitation in the beginning was this is a this is an extension point and we don't need Define it let's get the core API you know down and figure it out since then status list 2021.
[2022-05-24T20:15:44.873Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Tesla's 2021 spec you know exists and there is thought there was maybe there isn't.
[2022-05-24T20:15:59.585Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: No it's the it's the credential refresh isn't it that's the that's the flow that we have refresh we see refresh 2021 is the thing that exists.
[2022-05-24T20:16:06.587Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And I think we have yeah we have like a protocol flow here.
[2022-05-24T20:16:14.146Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: But we don't have a protocol flow for example protocol flow example for.
[2022-05-24T20:16:20.605Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Status list 2021 I guess.
[2022-05-24T20:16:26.116Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so what are the next steps here we need to.
[2022-05-24T20:16:38.785Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Need to wear where should we detail this so should we detail this in status list 2021 and then point to that as an example of.
[2022-05-24T20:16:44.557Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Revocation or should we.
[2022-05-24T20:16:51.073Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Should we put this one thing of how you do.
[2022-05-24T20:17:23.247Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Asian in scope for the BC API noting that there's another argument that we should put this in scope for the verifiable credential base spec like the data model stuff so so the three options are at least three options are put it in the v-spec then we can only just talk about data model put it in the VC API spec as the one normative way of doing status and replication.
[2022-05-24T20:17:23.566Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  or keep it in a separate Speck.
[2022-05-24T20:17:32.942Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And point to it from the VC API specification thoughts on those three.
[2022-05-24T20:17:39.985Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	q+
[2022-05-24T20:17:46.840Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I would think it's going to end up being a combination of those things sorry I didn't I didn't jump on cue go ahead guys.
[2022-05-24T20:17:52.029Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Since I had it Joe.
[2022-05-24T20:18:18.530Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	s/BC/VC/
[2022-05-24T20:18:21.577Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: My sense of the the VC API and I obviously we're still teasing out scope here that's the fundamental question was it it's wherever you need an endpoint for exchanging be seized or managing be seized and it seems like both refresh and relocation are part of that set we just haven't formalized a very well so I would question why isn't that endpoint part of the.
[2022-05-24T20:18:27.123Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: One of the endpoints we use to manage species would be my question.
[2022-05-24T20:18:33.542Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Ocean Marcus Europe.
[2022-05-24T20:18:34.361Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-05-24T20:18:36.551Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack markus
[2022-05-24T20:18:43.197Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2022-05-24T20:18:44.414Z]	<Transcriber>	Markus_Sabadello: So monitored until recently argued that these tests which should be more modular and.
[2022-05-24T20:19:18.531Z]	<Transcriber>	Markus_Sabadello: We're not we're not talking about test Suites right was just talking about the API specification because I remember in the test with you you argue that all should be more modular right and there's no it is a separate test suite for Tiki and then there's a test suite for Ed 25-19 2020 and those are not part of the main we see API test Suite anymore so I'm wondering if that would be an argument Falls making this more modular and not make it part of the main.
[2022-05-24T20:19:18.961Z]	<Transcriber>	Markus_Sabadello:  the main API specification because like you said it's.
[2022-05-24T20:19:28.331Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-05-24T20:19:30.064Z]	<Transcriber>	Markus_Sabadello: But I'm not sure I just just a thought that I think about these these are some kind of histories.
[2022-05-24T20:19:35.358Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2022-05-24T20:20:03.419Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes certainly my preference would be to keep them separate in molecular there's a tension here right I mean they're good good arguments on either side the the argument for well so ok so first of all Marcus I think you're right you know there there's there's this argument for modularity and it is we there is a way to break this stuff down so all these things are in different test Suite so there's not one monolithic VC API test Suite.
[2022-05-24T20:20:03.706Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  and there's.
[2022-05-24T20:20:34.402Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Kind of a super focused core test suite and then test Suites for Cryptid sweets in status mechanisms and refresh mechanisms and all those all those extension points so one way we could approach the work is basically say you know their test Suites were all the extension points for a VC in in the VC API has to define the basic end points for doing those things and I think it does today like the exchanges stuff.
[2022-05-24T20:21:02.296Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I believe supports the refresh credential refresh so we've got that in the VC API spec and then the status list stuff is just any random URL out on the internet can hold the status list or the status list credentials and so managing those things is really kind of a back-end task for the issuer the issuer is the thing that manages those URLs and does things with them.
[2022-05-24T20:21:02.651Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  so you know.
[2022-05-24T20:21:35.455Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All things you know all things considered it feels like keeping these things as module modular specifications modular test Suites in then pointing to them from the VC API as the one example Joe so if we want to provide examples we can say if you want an example of how to use XYZ API or how to do credential refresh or how to do status lists here as a normative specification that you can go off and read.
[2022-05-24T20:21:35.495Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-05-24T20:21:35.821Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  at least that would be my preference.
[2022-05-24T20:21:38.774Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead base.
[2022-05-24T20:21:38.988Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack longley
[2022-05-24T20:22:09.031Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I agree with a lot of that one other thing I want to bring up is that there's been a number of people in the VC in the in the run-up to getting a second PC working group they've mentioned how while we have extension points it would be really good for interoperability for any one of these extension points to have one working mechanism that people can be pointed to and while I agree.
[2022-05-24T20:22:09.436Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  we want to try.
[2022-05-24T20:22:17.813Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2022-05-24T20:22:40.451Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Modular it would be good to figure out a way to deal with that tension as well and the other thing is there may be some additional work that needs to happen with the VC API to enable more privacy preserving checking of the revocation list and so there might be a piece of for example the verifier API might need to be able to accept the revocation list credential.
[2022-05-24T20:22:40.783Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  well when.
[2022-05-24T20:22:59.715Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: When the very whenever whatever party hats that endpoint to verify BC it might need to optionally be able to send the list so it doesn't have to be fetched by the verifier API and that would be something that would go into the VC API test Suite.
[2022-05-24T20:23:05.542Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-05-24T20:23:07.438Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2022-05-24T20:23:15.832Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: See I put myself on the cue but forgot why was that front end of your comment lonely.
[2022-05-24T20:23:46.987Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Well one way one way you know the so the point is people have been saying Hey would be good to have you have all these extension points you need to Define at least one normative way of doing it I think we can do that we can keep things modular and do that by effectively pointing in a normative way to say You must support status list 2021 for example and then point to the spec right because because specs do that all the time they point to other specs in a very normative way and say you must.
[2022-05-24T20:24:18.282Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: He's back so that's my suggestion if you know to keep things modular we can keep things modular and we can point normatively in the v-spec to say this is the one way of you this is you have to at least implement this replication mechanism or you have to at least specify this sorry status list you know mechanism or credential refresh mechanism the concern I have is the sheer amount of work.
[2022-05-24T20:24:18.580Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  that that might.
[2022-05-24T20:24:49.581Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Generate for us where we have to move all those things into normative you know all at the same time in inevitably someone is going to show up with you know an arguably more privacy preserving mechanism right and then they'll be a big fight over all right which one you know should we should we use and again there's a trade-off there if you pick one thing then you improve interop.
[2022-05-24T20:24:49.912Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  but you also.
[2022-05-24T20:25:05.866Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Potentially take other things the working group could have done in the meantime off the table that might have been you know more important so it's a bit of a double-edged sword doing that go ahead tape.
[2022-05-24T20:25:34.251Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I don't think we need to go so far as to say that you must implement this particular mechanism but I think what people were looking for minimally was if you're going to use this extension Point here is one normative way that you can use that extension point and I think that's different from telling people that they must Implement status this 2021 instead it's if you're going to use the credential status feature in the VC w g data model here is one normative way.
[2022-05-24T20:25:34.635Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  it's done if you want to.
[2022-05-24T20:25:41.261Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Plus 12 that see Joe gave a thumbs up as well.
[2022-05-24T20:26:12.194Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um okay so what is the proposal here that we don't Define how to host revocation lists with the VC API but we do point to a specification that does that in the desire there is to say that there is a normative way to do that here's how you would do that and here's how the and that specification says how you use.
[2022-05-24T20:26:19.651Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You can specify the protocol on how you do that is that is that what we were saying go ahead lonely.
[2022-05-24T20:26:36.026Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I think so with the with one addition which is we need to say that that other spec might also Define a hook into the VC API for sending a revocation list credential to the verifier.
[2022-05-24T20:27:11.286Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah I know dick noting that it's super dangerous to do that unless you're using a heard privacy mechanism like status list 2021 and even then that's frowned upon like ideally it's the holder delivering that status list credential and there isn't a direct verifier to issuer communication.
[2022-05-24T20:27:23.161Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I see okay.
[2022-05-24T20:27:28.521Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: That's the to be clear that is the purpose of this the holder fetches it hands that to the verifier the verifier hits the VC verifier API with that caught it came from the holder that way they avoid pulling it from the issuer directly from the revocation list and point.
[2022-05-24T20:27:37.045Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: In the spec that should say that is the credential status 2021 spec.
[2022-05-24T20:28:06.051Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah we'd be the first version of a spec saying of an extension spec saying what the VC API verifier API needs to be able to accept and so we might also need a section in the VC API we needed to extension point for the verifier so that credential status mechanisms can create these kinds of extensions.
[2022-05-24T20:28:42.276Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: It's effectively a way to forward information from the holder to the verifier API so it's hate to use the word bucket but it's sort of a bucket for credential status it meta data or information that a verifier that understands how to apply a particular revocation method or status check method can use.
[2022-05-24T20:28:44.855Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I miss that last part where would that.
[2022-05-24T20:29:08.555Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So when you when you're making a call to verify a verifiable presentation or credential or verifiable credential you would include additional credential status information and in the case of status list 2021 that would be you can optionally include the status list credential it off to the bear.
[2022-05-24T20:29:09.202Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: In the presentation you're saying in the presentation.
[2022-05-24T20:29:28.977Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: If we might want it to be an option that rides along with the presentation so you send the presentation you also send options in those options today you include like a challenge and some other information and we would want a section on for credential status data and you would send the revocation list.
[2022-05-24T20:29:36.258Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Credential or that status credential as an option for the verifier to use.
[2022-05-24T20:29:40.775Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay I see so that you're talking about in like the BP request spec we would do that.
[2022-05-24T20:29:44.265Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: There's two pieces there's two pieces to this.
[2022-05-24T20:29:45.700Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: For the video response yeah there's it would be in the presentation right.
[2022-05-24T20:30:10.535Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Well the VP presentation request would ask for a status list credential along with what other credentials you're providing the holder would provide that information to the verifier app I'm not sure if I'm using the right terminology still the app would turn around and send the credentials from the presentation.
[2022-05-24T20:30:10.800Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  and I guess would end up.
[2022-05-24T20:30:30.920Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: We have to work through the details here but it might end up that that credential is in the presentation itself but what we want to have happen at the verifier service is it knows to pull out the revocation credential from that presentation and use it instead of fetching it directly.
[2022-05-24T20:30:47.770Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay um okay so what so what's the plan here we are going to.
[2022-05-24T20:31:23.758Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: When when the topic of if there's a time where there is going to be a topic about you know revocation in the spec or we should talk about it and we should say hey if you want to do revocation here's a normative way of doing it and then we put a point to whatever the most popular you know mechanism is that day let's just say it's like credential status 2021 and in the credential status 2021 spec the data models defined the API ground Management's defined.
[2022-05-24T20:31:24.304Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  and in we're expecting large chunks of it to be dependent on the.
[2022-05-24T20:31:55.918Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: II or side effects from the VC API and then there may be other instructions in there on how to use the herd privacy credential how holder can prefetch it and how a verifier can ask for it if the holder has it and how the holder can deliver it to the verifier if if they.
[2022-05-24T20:31:56.478Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  know how to get it you know.
[2022-05-24T20:32:20.208Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: From the issuer so it would require both the verifier in the holder to understand that each other supports this delivery feature and if they don't support that then for example the verifier can just go out to the issuer and fetch it in the in the holder still protected by preferred privacy when that happens.
[2022-05-24T20:32:24.267Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Did I summarized that plan correctly.
[2022-05-24T20:32:26.844Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: It sounded right to me.
[2022-05-24T20:32:32.863Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay would anyone object to that plan or have concerns around that plan Joe.
[2022-05-24T20:32:57.440Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: What gave me pause is the your language here that the verifier just goes to the issuer which is generally a pattern we have not been a bracing.
[2022-05-24T20:33:32.587Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah and that's why I hesitated a bit when they first said that because I know that people might look at that and go like we are never supposed to do that and in some cases it's kind of sort of okay like in the hard privacy case right status list 2021 was designed for that being the the the way people would just default to doing it with the more complex protocol that lonely just outlines being the best practice right.
[2022-05-24T20:33:33.304Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um but we know that something.
[2022-05-24T20:33:37.041Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Are lazy and.
[2022-05-24T20:33:54.023Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Well I don't know if that's a good argument but you know implementers can be lazy and and they're going to do the thing with the path of least resistance and we have to at least protect the holder in those cases and then the hope is that we can.
[2022-05-24T20:33:54.224Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  put a.
[2022-05-24T20:34:10.060Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Not light on there being a better way to do this in the future and and you know make that something that wallets compete on is we're being better about the way we you know.
[2022-05-24T20:34:35.671Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Right so so if our intention is what you just described and we I think we should have stronger language than verifier just goes to the shore and should be something along the lines of the verifier should use the Privacy respecting mechanism or something that avoids phone home right we should we should I think we should have a should in there about a privacy respecting mechanism rather than language that some people will see that oh they can just contact the issuer and they'll go build.
[2022-05-24T20:34:36.092Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  that workflow.
[2022-05-24T20:34:54.070Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep yeah I mean we could go as far as basically saying you should not the verifier should not contact the issuer in should use this other privacy-preserving mechanism where the holder delivers the credential to the verifier.
[2022-05-24T20:35:08.269Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah as long as we can get Shades in there I understand that it can't be a must because there are use cases that need that but should do it through a privacy respecting intermediary layer is I think important.
[2022-05-24T20:35:12.143Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay all right any concerns are objections to that.
[2022-05-24T20:35:16.650Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	q+
[2022-05-24T20:35:25.173Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Group are to go ahead.
[2022-05-24T20:35:53.535Z]	<Transcriber>	Kayode_Ezike: Here's a quick one so I guess this means that the holder would have to have whiskey would have to communicate with the verifier more often in order to get the more up-to-date version of the status list now that now that we know we're not relying on just verify being able to just update whatever is hosted at that link now we have to kind of have a way for the holder to then make sure that they're.
[2022-05-24T20:35:53.912Z]	<Transcriber>	Kayode_Ezike:  you know constantly in sync with.
[2022-05-24T20:36:02.705Z]	<Transcriber>	Kayode_Ezike: If I select is a thoughts on on how frequently that that should be happening this putting that out there.
[2022-05-24T20:36:05.813Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Dave.
[2022-05-24T20:36:31.103Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I think that's going to be a matter of policy for the verifier and wallets are going to have to be responsive they're going to look at ideally they would look at a VPR that would have that information in there that says the credential needs to be at least this fresh and the wallet would need to go fetch it if it did not have a cached version that was that fresh and because it's really going to be the verifiers policy we can put we can suggest.
[2022-05-24T20:36:37.174Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Time frames in the spec but it's going to be a business rule.
[2022-05-24T20:37:24.378Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right one second way while I type this up so the proposal is talk about status revocation the VC API in point to a normative status replication mechanism from the spec spec that is pointed to as a concrete example of how to implement implement the feature the spec that is pointed to.
[2022-05-24T20:37:59.707Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All the data models and the protocols hired to implement the location mechanism as well as guidance to maximize privacy when possible ideally the.
[2022-05-24T20:38:16.740Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Are should not contact issuer to check status information and should get that status information from the holder.
[2022-05-24T20:38:28.315Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: To implement this is wellcome.
[2022-05-24T20:38:31.553Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	q-
[2022-05-24T20:38:32.870Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: In the VC API and.
[2022-05-24T20:38:51.328Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so I think this one's ready for PR any other thoughts before we move on to the next thing.
[2022-05-24T20:39:06.292Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right that was a good solid discussion on this item thank you everyone okay.
[2022-05-24T20:39:15.344Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Next item up the should start getting easier in theory.
[2022-05-24T20:39:17.532Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Issuer API does not expose issuer identifiers and supported crypto suites
[2022-05-24T20:39:21.383Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/266
[2022-05-24T20:39:46.024Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so does the issuer API that you sure API does not expose issue are identifiers and supported crypto sweets this kicked off a long discussion between Horry and Dave and Marcus chimed in as well it also spread into other repositories and the traceability work.
[2022-05-24T20:39:57.574Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: What I remember this kind of sort of has to do with Discovery and whether or not we need it I think the current.
[2022-05-24T20:40:30.392Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The current set of discuss the current set of conversations we've had in the group have basically said that they're going to be issuer issuer URL in points just base in points that are configured with very specific credentials in very specific crypto sweets in very specific issue or IDs and those are not optional things that are sent anymore or rather implementations can can provide kind of options to switch those things.
[2022-05-24T20:40:30.635Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  up but one way of a.
[2022-05-24T20:40:42.798Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Plex City here the N by n complexity here is to just make it so that issuer and points are locked into a very specific issue or crypto sweet and possibly credential.
[2022-05-24T20:40:52.595Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so thoughts on that from folks that are implementing go ahead Dave.
[2022-05-24T20:40:53.060Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack dave
[2022-05-24T20:41:20.696Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I'm a big fan of creating specific configurations on issuer software that are bound to as narrow a set of things for eliminating an option ality as much as possible ideally completely so the way I'm imagining these things to work is the party that wants to be able to issue credentials using the issuer API creates a new issue or.
[2022-05-24T20:41:21.102Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  since which.
[2022-05-24T20:41:52.809Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: The configuration has a configuration that they want to support it that endpoint that would be a crypto sweet or Advocate status list or a credential status mechanism if they're using Z caps for example they would provide Z caps to allow access to use a certain key to sign the credentials they might also use oauth credentials to provide access to particular keys for signing.
[2022-05-24T20:41:53.142Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  something along those lines and.
[2022-05-24T20:42:02.864Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Once you create that configuration that it that endpoint using that in point should not require.
[2022-05-24T20:42:25.682Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Sending any kind of options and so when you post to that endpoint you send the the credential you want to have issued and if that's a supported credential I think I missed this you would also want to configure the credential types that are supported at that in Point if you send something that's valid for that configuration then you get a credit you get issue to an appropriate credential.
[2022-05-24T20:42:26.022Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  I do.
[2022-05-24T20:42:59.267Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I just don't think and you know responding this discoverability concept I just don't think that there's it makes sense to have an API where a client could iterate over all the issuer's provided in an endpoint find one that has a configuration that they like and then just send something to it presuming that they even have the credentials to hit that endpoint I don't think that that really matches I don't know what use case that matches and it I don't think.
[2022-05-24T20:42:59.854Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  really makes any sense to do it that way I think that.
[2022-05-24T20:43:14.696Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: It's going to be the process for setting up an application for issuing credentials is going to be to create and configure in issuing configuration and then add that to your software and hit that endpoint whenever you want to issue something.
[2022-05-24T20:43:16.792Z]	<Andy_Miller>	present+
[2022-05-24T20:43:54.127Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah it it seems to me that the I think I'm with Dave I mean it's the issuer app which will be talking to the issue or service and that issue our app is the one who has encoded the business logic is written to drive that service endpoint it knows what that service is doing on behalf of the app like that was part of.
[2022-05-24T20:43:54.451Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  of standing up the whole.
[2022-05-24T20:44:12.770Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So I'm not understanding the use case in which the issuer app would need to do some sort of Discovery because the issuer service was configured to support the app so it seems to me it's a configuration time thing and not an interactive thing.
[2022-05-24T20:44:39.671Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep plus one is that all that makes a lot of sense to me I think the the concern I have is that or he's not here in Mike Farley is not here to argue why they feel like Discovery is you know such a strong you know use case for them go ahead Dave.
[2022-05-24T20:45:09.196Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I agree it would be good to get their feedback again but my my feeling is that that original design came out of creating a system that's going to work with a test suite and it made writing test Suites easier but a whole lot of things were risk were relaxed and didn't you know don't really match real-world use cases with the test Suite I think create creating a demo site or a test Suite site that anyone can hit.
[2022-05-24T20:45:09.531Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  it will sign with any key you know in.
[2022-05-24T20:45:41.393Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Your configuration options was a really good way to quickly bootstrap showing some of the features of this API but when you get down to real world use cases it's not going to ever function that way and and and I think we just need to modify how we would go about you know doing the test Suites where you provide specific configurations for the specific tests that you want to run and that that matches how you would also set up applications in the real world.
[2022-05-24T20:45:52.590Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-05-24T20:46:15.509Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right any other input on this item so the original issue was the issuer API does not expose issuer identifiers and supported Chris crypto sweets the argument is yes and it doesn't need to be in clothes the clothes the issue.
[2022-05-24T20:46:20.388Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah please go ahead Andy.
[2022-05-24T20:46:42.604Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: I think my new this is Andy from one attack just as a little context I don't I'm not I don't have any input on that specific way the issues specifically worded but I do I did want to share that we have two specifications that support Dynamic client registration.
[2022-05-24T20:46:43.104Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: That's LT I.
[2022-05-24T20:47:14.420Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: Badges and the the use case are the scenario is that a in the case of an open badges one that you have your badges hosted somewhere you've been collecting them out on what we call a host which probably more be called a wallet these days and but you want to move them yeah I want to move them to this other service that I that I have come across or I just prefer.
[2022-05-24T20:47:14.740Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller:  for some reason.
[2022-05-24T20:47:46.122Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: And the through with Dynamic client registration if both sides support that then the application I music can reach out and discover the endpoint that the other host that I want to move to what it supports and can facilitate the actual exchange of all the registration information that.
[2022-05-24T20:47:46.405Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller:  it's needed for.
[2022-05-24T20:48:17.667Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: And and then and then start the actual process of helping you move your badges over to this new host so it's it's really the use case for us in both cases is where person wants to do something with their data move it to a different or use it or move it to a different application that.
[2022-05-24T20:48:46.829Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: The current platform is not aware of yet and they don't want to go through the whole they in fact can't go through that whole process or there's no easy way to go through the whole process of getting the two platforms to talk to talk to each other call each other on the phone exchange email blah blah blah blah blah that's a facilitates all of that and it can happen almost instantly.
[2022-05-24T20:48:53.388Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: And by the way Dynamic so that even a registration.
[2022-05-24T20:48:53.734Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: And fight but I never sold out.
[2022-05-24T20:48:59.403Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: Is used to stand the service Discovery as part of it.
[2022-05-24T20:49:08.427Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: I don't have a way of doing the Cuban like to do.
[2022-05-24T20:49:14.499Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ Justin
[2022-05-24T20:49:25.851Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right Justin you're on right after Dave who's on the Queue I will add U + Justin thank you Andy that is that a super helpful service Discovery babe you're up next.
[2022-05-24T20:49:54.045Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Right so just do want to quickly respond to what Andy said and then I was on the queue for different reason I would say and he's use cases of you know really important one but it doesn't follow it does not fall under the issue or API because I don't think that the way that use case was described as not involve having all of your badges reissued and I don't know that you would even be able to do that because you would have to contact each individual issuer you can't just ask.
[2022-05-24T20:49:54.389Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  ask some other service.
[2022-05-24T20:50:12.709Z]	<bengo>	present+
[2022-05-24T20:50:18.227Z]	<Andy_Miller>	+1
[2022-05-24T20:50:25.462Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Sign all of your badges over so I think what you're really talking about there is is as you mentioned you have this concept of a host or a holder a wallet and you want to move your existing badges to a different location to have those stored I think that's a totally valid use case but not related to what the issuer API is going to do and the comment I got on the Queue to make was I wanted to tweak what you said Manu it's not that we're going to say.
[2022-05-24T20:50:57.930Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Need to express any configuration information at these endpoints it's that I think it's fine to create a git and point for any one of these configurations so that any party that's able to access that endpoint can load and see what the configuration information is but we don't need to do that in support of some kind of Discovery API and nor do we need to make it so that these endpoints are highly optional.
[2022-05-24T20:50:58.333Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  so I think it's totally fine to have an API.
[2022-05-24T20:51:21.338Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Configuration and if you called get on it later as some party that's authorized to hit that in point you could find out what that configuration information is but that's the the use case there is not two to browse this an endpoint a bunch of issuer instances and pick one and hope that you can issue something.
[2022-05-24T20:51:30.044Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-05-24T20:51:31.203Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Right thanks Dave Justin Europe.
[2022-05-24T20:51:32.733Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack just
[2022-05-24T20:52:05.774Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Yeah so I just wanted to point out One support for what Andy is is discussing in terms of its use case and to just point out that the arguments that Dave is making are ultimately hunting the registration and Discovery questions down to another step and that has a benefit to cases which do have a static configuration of which there are many and you know many reasonable practical ones out there but the ability to have.
[2022-05-24T20:52:06.136Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer:  have machine-readable.
[2022-05-24T20:52:46.456Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Parameters for engaging with the system really like you can't downplay that and pretend that the only way that people are going to use it is in this you know open world lengths lay where I don't know anything about you so I'm just going to go through this entire catalog and hope I find something that matches because what's really going to happen realistically is that you'll have a handful of things that you do and a system that you're trying to talk to and you're trying to find the overlap of that.
[2022-05-24T20:52:46.988Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer:  for right now.
[2022-05-24T20:52:56.164Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Yes exhibit a that with with automation that is usually.
[2022-05-24T20:53:25.628Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: This is I will also point out that this is not really in conflict with Dave's idea of having an instance of this be locked down to a particular set of parameters it does however although that does though is push this question to some other endpoint that hasn't been defined that gives you a list of different configurations that you can that you can.
[2022-05-24T20:53:28.667Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-05-24T20:53:31.576Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: True thank you Justin.
[2022-05-24T20:53:38.253Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Awesome thank you Justin so good points all around go ahead Dave here on the queue.
[2022-05-24T20:54:05.611Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I wanted to to a certain extent I agree with what Justin said it's if we wanted to I think the way that this would work if people wanted to in a machine driven way create these configurations the way would work would not be that they would search for an existing configuration they can use is they would hit an endpoint on the issuer service that would list all of the possible support all the supported features of that issuing.
[2022-05-24T20:54:05.921Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  at form.
[2022-05-24T20:54:20.289Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: They would use that to create their own configuration from that dynamically and then use it and I think that's that's all that all matches that all lines up with my view of the system and I think that matches with Justin says.
[2022-05-24T20:54:22.586Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Yes what you've just described is.
[2022-05-24T20:54:53.538Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Right and it's but it's the thing that we were missing before I think was we were trying to fit that into a box where you would look at existing configurations and pick and choose one and instead what we want to do is discovery of all possible features that aren't particularly that aren't bound to something so and I think what's key here is we don't want to get a list of all the features and then choose all those options and.
[2022-05-24T20:54:53.849Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  send them to some particular.
[2022-05-24T20:55:27.671Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Point because that does not but we discovered is that does not work with we know that these end points need to be stateful in some way especially if they're going to be doing status lists and and revocation mechanisms and so on and so it's important that we have this step where you're creating the configuration that it has some level some kind of state associated with it and then we're using it and so I think what's key is breaking these things apart so that what word I guess what I guess what was confusing.
[2022-05-24T20:55:28.193Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  two people was what we are discovering we're not discovering an existing.
[2022-05-24T20:55:38.177Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Can use we're discovering the features that are available on the issuing system so that we can create a configuration to use it.
[2022-05-24T20:56:13.156Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right so where do we go from here the original issue was that the issuer API does not expose issuer identifiers in supported crypto sweets I think what Dave is saying is it could publish a static configuration in by doing so you are not.
[2022-05-24T20:56:22.945Z]	<Dave_Longley>	publish a list of features (not a particular configuration)
[2022-05-24T20:56:36.225Z]	<Dave_Longley>	those features can be combined to create a valid configuration (issuer instance)
[2022-05-24T20:56:43.950Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Invalidating the whole dynamic registration kind of Discovery use case and I think what Justin in India are saying is that don't pump that use case down the road because they're legitimate use cases they're in we will end up needing some form and in some form of Discovery will be useful in the future because we've seen this happen before.
[2022-05-24T20:56:44.263Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  for you.
[2022-05-24T20:56:50.558Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Their systems is that a fair summary.
[2022-05-24T20:57:06.749Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I would just nitpick on some of the terminology there I think what's being published as the list of features that can be used to create a valid configuration or issuer instance and then you can use that issue or instance once it's been created to issue credentials.
[2022-05-24T20:57:18.385Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: Every that so far.
[2022-05-24T20:57:18.930Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay just an indie any concerns about that like is that so far off or.
[2022-05-24T20:57:35.929Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: I my only concern is that too big to adopt Dave's language it would need 22 and issue or instance creation API definition in order for that to make any sense and.
[2022-05-24T20:57:45.960Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Would it be enough to point to an issuer instance configuration.
[2022-05-24T20:57:55.171Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Like a like just making this up but like / issuers / 1 / config and then saying.
[2022-05-24T20:58:13.785Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Config has to follow this this data model it's just like a Jason key value pairs on this is the issuer and this is the crypto sweeten this is a revocation mechanism is that the minimum arm that would need to be hit Justin.
[2022-05-24T20:58:37.433Z]	<Andy_Miller>	No concerns. We have a discovery document which  describes the supported features, endpoints, etc. The actual registration is formed using the information in the discovery doc.
[2022-05-24T20:58:37.868Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: It's Robert it's that the critical part of that we could just as my understanding of what Mike Farley and have a steed I believe so about that is at least we're wired for that use case unfortunately with Mike not on the call like and you know and I do not speak authoritatively for that but I think that that's at least a good start make sure my gets taxed so we.
[2022-05-24T20:58:37.947Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: So let's go.
[2022-05-24T20:58:39.555Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so let's let's try that.
[2022-05-24T20:58:42.199Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: And I'll bring I'll bring this up with him when I be with him later.
[2022-05-24T20:59:11.988Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay thanks Justin all right so let's try that the current proposal is to expose a configuration for an issue or endpoint and note the issuer ID crypto sweet allow mobile credentials Rebecca.
[2022-05-24T20:59:41.587Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is and other relevant details to provide the basis for discovery for that in point it is unknown currently how that particular configuration in point is discovered.
[2022-05-24T21:00:03.674Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Another issue so AP are describing the issuer and points configuration is welcome which may or may not overlap.
[2022-05-24T21:00:12.114Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The discovery and points that vast provided.
[2022-05-24T21:00:19.063Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Any concerns about that being the path forward.
[2022-05-24T21:00:21.556Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Push back on that.
[2022-05-24T21:00:50.753Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Miami pushback is its conflating the a little bit that clean separation that we brought to light on the call so it's we have two different things going on we haven't decided whether or not we want to create an endpoint that exposes the features that are available on each Wing system but if you wanted to do Dynamic configuration creation you would hit that endpoint.
[2022-05-24T21:01:12.666Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Decide to create a configuration from that and then what we have here with the current proposal to expose the configuration is that part's fine but we're not going to be ever I don't think discovering that particular configuration that's a you created that configuration following your discovery of features.
[2022-05-24T21:01:12.894Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  that the issue.
[2022-05-24T21:01:19.148Z]	<Transcriber>	Justin_Richer: I know that we were taught.
[2022-05-24T21:01:42.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I know that we were time and Joe I see your hand up and Justin you're unmuted and we got to let people go so how about so we're going to continue this discussion in the issue and I'll just say I'll tag Mike Farley and we'll try to get further here this was a good good discussion here today for this particular issue was suggested that a.
[2022-05-24T21:01:43.202Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  I'm here.
[2022-05-24T21:02:14.324Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: But there were or concerns looking to save Longley like barley Justin here the others to continue the discussion here okay all right then that's that's that that one that's some good data okay that's it for the call today thank you everyone for joining I'm going to be on.
[2022-05-24T21:02:14.562Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  travel for the next two.
[2022-05-24T21:02:31.394Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So if you would like to volunteer to run this call please let me know and if not we just won't have the calls thanks everyone have a wonderful rest of the week and we'll see you at some point in the future.

