[2023-02-06T16:00:32.463Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:00:32.464Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:00:33.116Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:00:33.286Z]	<Sheri_Myrick-ASU>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:00:35.343Z]	<David_Baumgartner>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:00:35.398Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:00:36.412Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(VC_EDU)>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:00:38.711Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:00:43.378Z]	<Rob_Coyle>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:00:46.754Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:01:00.955Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	chair: Kerri_Lemoie
[2023-02-06T16:01:07.316Z]	<David_Baumgartner>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:01:26.635Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2023Feb/0002.html
[2023-02-06T16:01:27.850Z]	<Sheri_Myrick-ASU>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:01:31.330Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:01:40.381Z]	<Jeff_O_-_HumanOS>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:01:51.629Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:01:52.329Z]	<Xander_/_ASU_Pocket>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:01:57.545Z]	<Steph_Roman_(JFF)>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:02:20.025Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:02:53.774Z]	<Tayken_(LEF)>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:03:05.789Z]	<Anthony_F._Camilleri>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:03:30.414Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:03:40.572Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:03:47.849Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-02-06T16:03:47.850Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2023-02-06T16:03:58.649Z]	<Transcriber>	David_Baumgartner: Recording is on.
[2023-02-06T16:04:23.678Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hello everybody Welcome to the verifiable credentials for Education task force Monday February 6th our agenda today that can open Agenda so we've asked the community to bring their topics and once we get to that part of the call will explain how you could add those topics to the queue.
[2023-02-06T16:04:53.900Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: IP Note
[2023-02-06T16:04:53.900Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: A few of the the boilerplate items first one is my P note at the w3c you must be a member to to contribute any substitute of work to the standards this isn't a standard called This is a community called but in case you are working on those standards in the agenda email that goes out and I'm the link in the chat you will see information on how to become a member.
[2023-02-06T16:04:54.271Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  next call not recorded.
[2023-02-06T16:05:05.106Z]	<Eric_Shepherd>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:05:08.558Z]	<Morgan_Lemmer_Webber>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:05:08.558Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Call Notes
[2023-02-06T16:05:16.942Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We have a robot transcriber and we are also recording the audio we do have some video that is taken although we haven't really explored that as much yet but it is happening so just be aware that all of these are recorded and it's so that you can follow up but also so that others who can't make the caulk and see what's going on and learn from our conversations.
[2023-02-06T16:05:17.332Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  on these calls.
[2023-02-06T16:05:26.831Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2023-02-06T16:05:28.109Z]	<xander_-_ASU/Pocket>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:05:32.833Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2023-02-06T16:05:35.496Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:05:44.310Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+ my topic
[2023-02-06T16:05:47.876Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2023-02-06T16:05:50.162Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Q system so we put Q Plus in the chat and left hand side of gypsies that q+ like I'm doing right now and that adds you to the queue you could remove yourself from the queue by hitting the cue - if you have a topic that you would like to talk about in you understand what that topic is you hit Q Plus and then type in your topic which you will see It'll come in handy as part of our open Agenda discussion.
[2023-02-06T16:06:00.835Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:06:00.835Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2023-02-06T16:06:04.118Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Is there anybody new to the call today or anybody who's been for a while and here for a while would like to introduce themselves or reintroduce themselves so why don't you add yourself to the queue because.
[2023-02-06T16:06:07.078Z]	<Transcriber>	David_Baumgartner: So where do we find the Q holidays.
[2023-02-06T16:06:13.845Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yep in the chat on the left hand side I've Just Seen just type Q Plus now we'll add you to the queue.
[2023-02-06T16:06:18.411Z]	<Transcriber>	David_Baumgartner: Very good thank you.
[2023-02-06T16:06:23.534Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Would you like to introduce yourself David.
[2023-02-06T16:06:45.093Z]	<Tayken_(LEF)>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:06:55.246Z]	<Transcriber>	David_Baumgartner: Yes that David Bumgarner co-founder of software platform called smart Eddie wallet which is a digital credentials wallet for Learning and experience records lers that also captures learning sorry skills and competencies and helps people and employers map out a bridge between the skills the workforce has and the skills that they need for the jobs the employee.
[2023-02-06T16:06:55.668Z]	<Transcriber>	David_Baumgartner:  you will have to either today or next year let's say.
[2023-02-06T16:06:59.613Z]	<Transcriber>	David_Baumgartner: So delighted to join thank you Kerry.
[2023-02-06T16:07:00.933Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:07:02.134Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you David.
[2023-02-06T16:07:06.735Z]	<Keith_Kowal>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:07:07.271Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:07:12.557Z]	<Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:07:21.023Z]	<Shiren>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:07:22.108Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Does anybody else would anybody else like to introduce themselves if that we can move on to announcements does anybody have any announcements anything they'd like to share with us before we get started on the main topic if so you could add yourself to the queue right now with the q+.
[2023-02-06T16:07:22.108Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2023-02-06T16:07:22.593Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2023-02-06T16:07:27.184Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Manu you have the floor.
[2023-02-06T16:07:32.772Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Manu Sporny
[2023-02-06T16:07:33.850Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:07:34.586Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:07:42.834Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	s/Money/Manu
[2023-02-06T16:07:59.085Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I think scary couple of reminders the first one is the verifiable credentials working group meeting the face-to-face one is happening in Miami next week it is going to be Tuesday Wednesday Thursday if you want to attend in person it's probably a bit too late to ask but might not hurt if you still want to come you don't have to be a member of the group to attend but you do need permission from the chairs and.
[2023-02-06T16:07:59.657Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  that we don't have a ton of outside observers it.
[2023-02-06T16:07:59.701Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Probably still with.
[2023-02-06T16:08:27.486Z]	<David_Smith>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:08:30.663Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The realm of possibility get in otherwise you can request to attend remotely we will we should have remote tools and probably be like a zoom thing that you connect to those meetings will be happening all day Tuesday half day Wednesday and all day Thursday with and fairly packed agenda of things to go through that's announcement one the second announcement is that.
[2023-02-06T16:08:35.351Z]	<Taylor_(LEF)>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:08:45.248Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	EdDSA Data Integrity Cryptosuites Specification adopted: https://github.com/w3c/vc-di-eddsa
[2023-02-06T16:08:49.392Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	:clap:
[2023-02-06T16:09:02.786Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: With a huge thanks to this group the Edwards curve crypto sweet the Eds a Cryptid sweet was adopted last week by the verifiable credential working group I'll put a link in the chat Channel there that is the that is the crypto sweet that we used a lot of us used for the jff plugfest number two and my.
[2023-02-06T16:09:03.066Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  station is will continue to use it.
[2023-02-06T16:09:06.137Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:09:10.273Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: FF plugfest 3 which we can talk about today that's it.
[2023-02-06T16:09:12.118Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:09:12.542Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey thanks morning.
[2023-02-06T16:09:13.448Z]	<xander_-_ASU/Pocket>	huzzah!
[2023-02-06T16:09:19.382Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: A clear you are you have the floor please.
[2023-02-06T16:09:23.095Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Manu_Sporny
[2023-02-06T16:09:32.693Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Kaliya_Identity_Woman
[2023-02-06T16:09:38.435Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:09:43.089Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_Identity_Woman: Oh my goodness hi I just wanted to share again the APAC digital identity unconference inspired by IW happening in Bangkok Thailand March 1 March 1 is just an evening and it's two full days March 2nd and 3rd on Friday Thursday and Friday.
[2023-02-06T16:09:53.297Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:10:14.604Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_Identity_Woman: So if you are based in that region are listening later to this call or you have colleagues in your organization's or networked in that region it's a great opportunity to connect with the communities working on to decentralize it an Indian and regular identity systems as well we purposely made it broader than just these Technologies we got the head of engineering Formosa.
[2023-02-06T16:10:48.387Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_Identity_Woman: Yeah folks from all of many countries in Asia already signed up so it's great the I'm putting on an event called the thoughtful Biometrics Workshop which is now been condensed down to one day March 16th week making a space for academics and Industry folks and Civil Society folks to talk about those Technologies and their implications and then regular iaw is coming up April.
[2023-02-06T16:10:56.613Z]	<Jim_Kelly>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:10:57.441Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_Identity_Woman: April 18th to 20th in Mount Mountain View California.
[2023-02-06T16:11:02.710Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	IIW: https://internetidentityworkshop.com/
[2023-02-06T16:11:09.135Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:11:12.767Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_Identity_Woman: Registrations open we're really committed to accessibilities of prices and issue please reach out to us and we'll make sure you can come and that's it thanks.
[2023-02-06T16:11:13.251Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:11:14.586Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you Kaliya.
[2023-02-06T16:11:14.586Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: VC-EDU Public Google Calendar
[2023-02-06T16:11:34.718Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I don't see anybody else in the queue for announcements I have one big announcement as I said this out an email last week but maybe not everybody is on that list too can see this me if I we've created a public calendar.
[2023-02-06T16:11:35.543Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: You and me.
[2023-02-06T16:11:39.131Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The which had for you.
[2023-02-06T16:11:40.076Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	https://www.apacdigitalid.org/
[2023-02-06T16:11:41.737Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	vc-edu public calendar: https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=public.vc.edu@gmail.com
[2023-02-06T16:11:50.788Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	https://www.thoughtfulbiometrics.org/
[2023-02-06T16:12:02.427Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: What we did was we published the not the topics for who's hosting every week up until I think I got we got through Labor Day so you'll see if you look at this calendar who I miss hosting which weeks which we would like to host an open Agenda.
[2023-02-06T16:12:03.074Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  holidays and.
[2023-02-06T16:12:08.314Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	https://internetidentityworkshop.com/
[2023-02-06T16:12:11.403Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:12:38.348Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: That type of stuff and and the way we hope this is useful is when you could use this calendar and add it to your so you have this call in your calendar which was most kind of hard to do before but also you could see who's hosting and if you have something you think you would like to present a topic that you're interested in and you think one of us would be the more appropriate host for that that topic you can reach out to us individually and so also know that like this isn't set in stone right these things could change.
[2023-02-06T16:12:38.962Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  could be that weeks get canceled or you know our schedules.
[2023-02-06T16:12:39.098Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Clash or we need to.
[2023-02-06T16:12:47.182Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:12:47.233Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: In two weeks or something but this is sort of a sort of like a guidepost for the cause for the coming week.
[2023-02-06T16:12:55.269Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:13:15.902Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	q+
[2023-02-06T16:13:15.902Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Open Agenda
[2023-02-06T16:13:24.516Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay if everyone is ready to buy don't get to our main topic unless anybody has anything else and of course just put yourself in the queue if you do do it this week we decided to an open Agenda please like to try and do this monthly if possible as co-chairs we could always bring topics that we are interested in but we know that a lot of you are busy and you're working on things and you're trying to understand what's going on and you have topics that you would like to bring maybe not present a whole call but maybe you just want to talk about.
[2023-02-06T16:13:25.125Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  out something that's on your mind and you know or ask questions so today is the first time.
[2023-02-06T16:13:25.246Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We're going to.
[2023-02-06T16:13:43.948Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+ plugfest 3
[2023-02-06T16:13:55.992Z]	<Brooke_Lipsitz>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:14:00.545Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q+ VC playground & Experience You
[2023-02-06T16:14:01.259Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: It is open Agenda and the way we'd like to do it is if you have a topic that you would like to bring up just type I'm going to put an example in the chap do a Q Plus and then the topic so say Q Plus and I'm going to put plugfest here but press 3 because I know that's one because it came up in the email list and then we will have it in the queue and and what's great about that is if you do Q Plus and then the topic when we're doing the minutes later we'll be able to link this topics so.
[2023-02-06T16:14:01.688Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  oh it's very helpful if you could do that.
[2023-02-06T16:14:06.882Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ Government/University Friendly Cryptosuites
[2023-02-06T16:13:15.902Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine) - Open Badge publisher
[2023-02-06T16:14:07.692Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Deb Everhart from  credential engine I see you or in the queue.
[2023-02-06T16:14:08.410Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	q+ Open Badge publisher
[2023-02-06T16:14:11.499Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: You have the floor.
[2023-02-06T16:14:21.821Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)
[2023-02-06T16:14:23.323Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:14:42.170Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Thank you so I'm not sure if everyone on the call knows credential engine I'm not going to give a long intro but a couple of key points that are relevant to what we like to talk about today credential engine is a non-profit and we developed a credential transparency description language is an open schema and support the registry which is an online way of long-term storage for data that's in CTL.
[2023-02-06T16:14:42.651Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  we do not.
[2023-02-06T16:14:47.908Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	s/Dead ever heard /Deb Everhart
[2023-02-06T16:14:49.889Z]	<Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine>	Jeanne_Kitchens:present+
[2023-02-06T16:14:52.651Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:15:00.373Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2023-02-06T16:15:03.926Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:15:13.451Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Products I want to be clear about that we're not a product company but we do have tools for converting data to see TBL and being able to publish it to the registry so that's context for the what we would like to show today which should take less than 10 minutes and it's our new batch publisher so the reason.
[2023-02-06T16:15:13.799Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  in for this.
[2023-02-06T16:15:22.332Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to speak to VC Examples extension (like Credential Engine) to CHAPI Playground
[2023-02-06T16:15:46.178Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): This new capability is that as we know badges are very widely used our research shows that there's over 75 million badges that have been issued in the world and currently about 430,000 offered in the us alone and yet many of those badges are undervalued because people don't understand what they mean and so we advocate for using CT DL both within Badges and also.
[2023-02-06T16:15:46.547Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  so being able to use the alignment Field in.
[2023-02-06T16:16:14.484Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	If you put yourself in  response to this topic (Credential Engine, please add yourself as "q+ credential engine" so we can call on you as part of this topic.
[2023-02-06T16:16:19.500Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:16:19.596Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): You linked to data that's in CTL that is linked data that contextualizes that badge in a lot of ways to skills Pathways other credentials and courses Etc and that's always been possible but we've just made a tool to make it a lot easier so if there are any questions about the context I'm happy to answer them and then Jean he's going to show us.
[2023-02-06T16:16:19.975Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  the short demo.
[2023-02-06T16:16:26.078Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: Thank you Jeff and I just wanted to make sure my microphone connected.
[2023-02-06T16:16:31.037Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We can hear you sounds good chicken.
[2023-02-06T16:16:35.010Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: Great okay good um I'll go ahead and then assuming I can do a screen share.
[2023-02-06T16:16:40.240Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	chicken / Jeanne
[2023-02-06T16:16:48.505Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	s/ chicken/ Jeanne
[2023-02-06T16:16:52.272Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: I'm going to turn off my camera but hello everyone thank you I'm Jeanne kitchens Chief technology Services officer with credential engine and I'm going to do a demonstration as Deb said as our new credential registry badge publishing tool.
[2023-02-06T16:16:59.735Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: Hey I'm just want to verify my screen sharing.
[2023-02-06T16:17:08.112Z]	<Brian>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:17:27.240Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: What you're seeing here is we have as Dimension we don't build products for end users but we build do build tools for converting information and to see DL link data structure to publish to the credential registry or on the web and this is our sandbox and there's a bunch of tools in here and I'm going to do the badge publisher application.
[2023-02-06T16:17:27.713Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  so I've already logged in and this is all.
[2023-02-06T16:18:00.624Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: Balazs open source code or will be after our pilot which is going on now I've logged into her system and you can see here that currently the to badging platforms that we can directly pull down badges from our canvas credentials and credibly and there's an option to paste the Json format from any platform is going to focus on the canvas credentials and I also want to mention that credential engine we.
[2023-02-06T16:18:01.077Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  deal with personally identifiable information.
[2023-02-06T16:18:01.268Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: And we do.
[2023-02-06T16:18:33.920Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: Not issue badges so this is just bringing in the badge class hopefully I put my correct password in but I'm logging into canvas credentials and you'll notice up here if I was in Canada and I had I didn't you badges I could select for example the Canada platform but since I don't issue badges I selected a test platform here I'm going to load issuers and just so I can provide a little more context those of you who are.
[2023-02-06T16:18:34.262Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  familiar with canvas badges.
[2023-02-06T16:19:05.369Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: To be Badger this is my test account I've created three badges here I'm just going to click one of them real quick those of you who are familiar with badges would recognize the information you know that a user who creates Badges and issues that would include with their badges you know a name potentially an expiration date for the credential or the badge description of it earning criteria and alignments and you can see down here my alignments.
[2023-02-06T16:19:05.712Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  are all.
[2023-02-06T16:19:38.454Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: So I created three badges with competency alignments I'm going to return back excuse me to the tool here and you'll recognize I've selected my account I've logged into it and what it's done is it's imported the three badges from the canvas credentials into the credential registry publishing system I can see them here if I click view Source I'm seeing them in the canvas credentials.
[2023-02-06T16:19:38.847Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  yes so I'm going to go ahead.
[2023-02-06T16:19:55.129Z]	<Jake>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:20:02.455Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+ Credential Engine - question about OB version
[2023-02-06T16:20:10.192Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: Just imported that data into the credential registry publishing system so now I can see my three badges I can click edit if I want to and if I needed to for some reason I could edit any of these properties that came in with that badge but notice what happened when I ended that import is it brought all those badge properties and as see gdl so we have the name or tool.
[2023-02-06T16:20:10.558Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  and a CT ID which is.
[2023-02-06T16:20:41.884Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: A unique Global identifier that is important when that gets published to the registry or to the web and description credential type I'm just going to click edit here as you can see you know just basically gives you the option to edit something I'm not going to actually edit it and I also want to point out I could change the badge type it's very common use case for a badge to be used a proxy for another type of credential and what you're seeing here are all the types of credentials.
[2023-02-06T16:20:42.222Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  in the ctd L.
[2023-02-06T16:21:15.597Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: Need to actually change that the CDL also has a way to say if I did change it I could still say this is really a certificate but it also is a is verified as a badge so I could still have that description and then you see the other badge properties here and you see the competencies and so as you as all of you who are familiar with the open badge specification know that.
[2023-02-06T16:21:16.049Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  alignments could be just about anything in my case these are.
[2023-02-06T16:21:32.371Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	q+ plugfest3
[2023-02-06T16:21:47.832Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	this is based on OB2 but we have implementation notes for OB3
[2023-02-06T16:21:48.019Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: And you'll see there's a toggle here to include them and I do want to include my competencies with the import so I'm not going to change anything I'm just going to click finish editing and move on to my next step and now basically I'm just going to save all three of these badges into the credential registry publishing system so now when I'm viewing this credential I'm seeing it in the credential registry publishing system I changed.
[2023-02-06T16:21:48.700Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  nothing on my badging.
[2023-02-06T16:21:48.924Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: That form nothing.
[2023-02-06T16:22:20.315Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: Been changed and I can see all the data I brought in including those competencies here as the ctd oh and then I can click approve and publish and I can publish it to the credential registry so I saved all three of them I can finish my publication and the last step in the process that I'm going to show you here is you could say of all alignments back to Canvas so I'll click that.
[2023-02-06T16:22:20.669Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  that and you could.
[2023-02-06T16:22:53.633Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: See here these if you if you know that open batch type you'll recognize these properties Target name URL description framework code and you can see that it is URL in this case is to the credential registry you know sandbox for the sandbox credential registry finder and production of course it wouldn't be the sandbox this is just a testing environment but the URL would be credential engine dot-org finder and that way it's saving back.
[2023-02-06T16:22:53.913Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  back to my badges so I didn't edit any of.
[2023-02-06T16:23:27.559Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: Edge's not it wouldn't change anything on the badging platform but I did add my alignment back to the badge and here it is so now with the user follows that alignment once I publish it to the registry there seen the data in the registry this of course is a human-readable credential finder page that will see here once it loads but the raw data in the registry.
[2023-02-06T16:23:28.013Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  if I were to.
[2023-02-06T16:23:40.916Z]	<Susan_Stroud>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:23:48.171Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:23:48.388Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: Date in the registry I would see it's the ctd L badge and now in our publishing system the user can link into other credentials they could link this to transfer value and so forth let me just stop there and see if W want to add anything.
[2023-02-06T16:23:48.646Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine:  stop my screen.
[2023-02-06T16:23:52.530Z]	<Transcriber>	Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine: Share unless there's anything anybody wants me to revisit.
[2023-02-06T16:23:53.789Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Does this work with OBv2.1 and OBv3 badges?
[2023-02-06T16:24:06.501Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2023-02-06T16:24:22.197Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): That's great Genie there was thank you so much Jeannie I love this time huh there was a question in the chat about the OB version so because all the badges that are out there currently are to this is based on Two And we have implementation notes for 3 and is Cheney said before this is all open source so we encourage having it be integrated with multiple badge platforms.
[2023-02-06T16:24:29.942Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you I did you put a link in the chat to on the back of the shirt.
[2023-02-06T16:24:46.784Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Yeah what was put in the in the chat is a link to our comms kit which includes a video of the demo that Genie just did the badge publisher itself is Young pilot and should be available very soon.
[2023-02-06T16:24:49.084Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: That's great I'm get.
[2023-02-06T16:24:53.148Z]	<Bob_Sopko>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:24:56.017Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Actually very soon not like when a product company says happens I used to work for product.
[2023-02-06T16:24:59.976Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay I'm glad you are in the queue again did you have something else or is this the same topic.
[2023-02-06T16:25:00.689Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): No it's the same thing.
[2023-02-06T16:25:02.768Z]	<Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine>	We'll open up the GitHub repository following the pilot to ensure any enhancements or bugs are addressed.
[2023-02-06T16:25:03.738Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:25:04.927Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	q-
[2023-02-06T16:25:07.390Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Okay got it thanks.
[2023-02-06T16:25:12.225Z]	<Jeanne_Kitchens,_Credential_Engine>	q-
[2023-02-06T16:25:16.528Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:25:16.739Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: You might have thank you - then that'll pull you from the queue thank you sure feels wrong you put yourself in the queue I believe score BC playground and also experience you project.
[2023-02-06T16:25:23.847Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2023-02-06T16:25:30.910Z]	<Taylor_(LEF)>	Sorry, late anncmt… ETHDenver coming Feb 24 - Mar 5 (15k+ expected w a ton of vc/edu content). https://www.ethdenver.com
[2023-02-06T16:25:30.910Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Phil_L_(P1) - VC playground & Experience You
[2023-02-06T16:25:45.888Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): Right thank you we're just one of the things that's becoming clear to us as we're experienced we're developing the pilots associated with experience you which Colin has mentioned a couple of times in Prior meetings to this call which is an attempt to look at whether or not emerging AI models can facilitate the transformation of unstructured data to structured data such as a VC data model.
[2023-02-06T16:26:08.142Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	this is a link to the communications kit for the Badge publisher-- please feel free to reuse these materials, and we'll keep this group posted on availability https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xBl0W-nFOYxrgZJqbA4lZgRSCpOUzryGA7aA3ChpFD0/edit?usp=sharing
[2023-02-06T16:26:18.131Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): Issue that has come up a number of times is the teams that are that are interested in this may very well know a lot about the AI world and there and the algorithms and such it may know less about the verifiable credential wrote world and we'd like to see if we can propose at least a discussion about extending the utility of the VC playground or potentially Deb's announcement suggest another way to view this which is connecting in some fashion these.
[2023-02-06T16:26:20.699Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab>	SpruceID putting on a did:day mini-summit at EthDenver as well: https://blog.spruceid.com/announcing-did-day-an-exploration-of-decentralized-identity-at-ethdenver-buidlweek/
[2023-02-06T16:26:32.381Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:26:49.698Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): Have overlapping interest and an overlapping communities in the case of experience you project we're trying to collect a repository of hundreds if not thousands of things like PDFs of transcripts and other unstructured representations of awards that will be useful as input to a a tested AI.
[2023-02-06T16:27:23.243Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): But if that was also aligned with the VC playground in some fashion because the target data models that were looking at but things get transferred into our VCS and so having that sort of come together in some fashion would seem to be a useful thing for the community if we could do it without undue burden to the case of the VC playground digital Bazaar which has been so generous it at making that available to the to the VC community and supporting a lot of the tools in it so.
[2023-02-06T16:27:23.666Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1):  that's the topic and whether we.
[2023-02-06T16:27:26.851Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:27:30.409Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	q+
[2023-02-06T16:27:30.527Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	we would be very happy to collaborate on this combination
[2023-02-06T16:27:31.174Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): Now over the winter just put that as a placeholder to put into another meeting down the road is it that's up to you.
[2023-02-06T16:27:40.196Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Big Field one question I have for you when you say ABC program did you mean the chappie but I.
[2023-02-06T16:28:06.986Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): The the choppy playground there's a whole bunch of things that that digital tools and digital Bazaar has put together in one place to be able to test the Integrity of the data models with you know the their Fidelity there for developers who are building these things to be able to to use and we'd like to see about about one expanding the visibility that to it to this.
[2023-02-06T16:28:07.244Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1):  new project that I just.
[2023-02-06T16:28:33.867Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): Into but also we think that there is a wider opportunity for this to become visible to the increasing interest that is now emerging in the in the VC World both on the HR side of things the HR open and and skills based hiring communities that are interested in these pot and these spaces and potentially others.
[2023-02-06T16:28:41.580Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I just sounds great amount of the I knew you're in a queue next but you have anything any thoughts.
[2023-02-06T16:29:10.279Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes absolutely Phil Phil read my mind I was you know as Deb was you know kind of talking through credential engine and we were watching the demo I was trying to figure out like is there a way for us to hook up kind of what credential engines doing to the chappie playground or you know maybe.
[2023-02-06T16:29:10.628Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  a broader verified.
[2023-02-06T16:29:41.301Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Potential playground that is definitely something that we are planning on spending some time this year doing which is basically trying to take us out of the critical path of creating these credentials and trying to make it much more open to the community we are planning on having like four years now we as in the community that VC Edge u,v the the credentials community group has has wanted this like.
[2023-02-06T16:30:14.931Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:30:16.105Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Examples repo and I think we're just on the cusp of enabling that and that would be just a totally open in the beginning GitHub repository that all the different companies can kind of just dump content into like verifiable credential templates and I was wondering if there's a way for us to type pull from credential engine to get stuff into that into that playground so that I mean so effectively the types of credentials that we can issue starts.
[2023-02-06T16:30:16.707Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  going you know exponential maybe not exponential but like you know ten.
[2023-02-06T16:30:38.126Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	yes, we have example credentials for all types of ed and training credentials
[2023-02-06T16:30:48.457Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Hundreds of different types of credentials that could be issued through the playground so that when one of us in the community needs to kind of show just an example a demo flow or just wants to see if our product you know is conformant with the stuff that's out there we'd be able to do it and we'd be able to kind of work on this thing as a community so I think the desire is absolutely there we are planning on you know trying to start using like the BC examples Repository.
[2023-02-06T16:30:49.145Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  we and credentials community group.
[2023-02-06T16:31:19.736Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: To pull content from there and of course you know the reason we kind of want to separate that repository out is is so that other people can create their own playgrounds like maybe there is a better one for like a playground specific for like education credentials or a playground specific for like government ID credentials or playground that's specific to supply chain right so that kind of we can.
[2023-02-06T16:31:25.046Z]	<Anthony_F._Camilleri>	q+ some updates from Europe
[2023-02-06T16:31:52.562Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Improve the amount of tooling that's available to the community to test test interoperability and kind of show demo so so yes absolutely like there's a huge desire to do that I think Jeff the plugfest to really pushed kind of our need to show that and I would imagine jff plugfest three is going to even further kind of push those capabilities so now it's a matter of kind of putting.
[2023-02-06T16:31:53.043Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  like putting the pieces together like credential in.
[2023-02-06T16:32:17.083Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And it's awesome and we want to figure out a way to pull that stuff into the playground so that we have the ability to issue a much broader set of credentials and very interested in collaborating on that I put myself on the queue for something totally different though but I can take a break and come back around to that later Carrie if.
[2023-02-06T16:32:19.392Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: It's a York City Oklahoma.
[2023-02-06T16:32:25.257Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	thank you Manu, we're ready for this collaboration!
[2023-02-06T16:32:32.828Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Great to hear, Deb!
[2023-02-06T16:32:33.614Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	After Anthony - let's pause on the topics and if there's time, we can add another. Thanks!
[2023-02-06T16:32:42.487Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Only limiting factor is engineering bandwidth at this point! :)
[2023-02-06T16:32:44.628Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): Can I just yeah I just wanted to add that data model that we would like to include in the unstructured to structured data Pilots for the AI side of stuff includes the Lem from the EU Community I saw it and Anthony cammalleri is on the queue as well we would like to be able to extend the our connection to the work that.
[2023-02-06T16:32:44.944Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1):  that's the terrific work going on in the EU.
[2023-02-06T16:32:52.396Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): In this concept of the playground as if possible and maybe perhaps you can come in on that as well thanks.
[2023-02-06T16:32:58.195Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:33:03.089Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And actually before I make you feel it in my name Anthony are you in the queue to reply to this or do you have your topic for the call.
[2023-02-06T16:33:12.108Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	this is a discussion draft that Phil Barker wrote for using CTDL in VCs/OBs https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ei7uxTeLs_vQPtMpRPx4KVZ-nQ46ySUlXpF1nzhgJUM/edit#heading=h.i33feeiez3el
[2023-02-06T16:33:12.552Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay thank you I might a year in the key twice do you have two topics or just one.
[2023-02-06T16:33:15.727Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q-
[2023-02-06T16:33:22.494Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:33:40.710Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes the next one is a little shorter and is a is a bit more down in the weeds but I'll try to cover it quickly so with lots of things to this community we were able to get the Edwards crypto sweet into the verifiable credentials working group and that's great the for those of you that are not familiar that Edward script or Suite is like a very modern.
[2023-02-06T16:33:47.961Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Manu_Sporny ECDSA Cryptosuite
[2023-02-06T16:33:51.955Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:33:58.667Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Manu_Sporny
[2023-02-06T16:34:08.520Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Topic:  Manu_Sporny - ECDSA Cryptosuite
[2023-02-06T16:34:11.944Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: As bleeding edge as you can get and still get something into production with you know the community so this crypto sweet is in the newest draft of the nist standards for acceptable cryptography so the good news there is like we're ahead of the curve there in like we kind of Hit The Sweet Spot there right we got it right as nist said yes we're going to accept this but it's not built out.
[2023-02-06T16:34:12.355Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  tin products yet.
[2023-02-06T16:34:47.179Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Means that some of you that are trying to go into production with verifiable credentials in the next two years or going to have a hard time getting that deployed if for example your customer like a university or a state government or federal government requires you to do your cryptographic your cryptography in something called Hardware security module so this this is what these Hardware security modules look like they're companies like thales just how you pronounce this.
[2023-02-06T16:34:47.714Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  is that sell Hardware into Data Centers.
[2023-02-06T16:35:05.671Z]	<Taylor_(LEF)>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:35:18.496Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Cryptography so they've got these big you know these computers 1u chassis they've got PCI cards they've got USB devices in these go through a very lengthy qualification process such that you know nation states or even universities depend on these to do their digital signatures now these things do not have EDSA built into them and they probably won't for another one to two years or so.
[2023-02-06T16:35:50.225Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We'll need for ecdsa as well this is another type of elliptic curve this thing has been around for like 15 plus years right so this is what governments in universities use today and this is just a heads up that we are planning on standardizing this as well through the verifiable credentials working group but people seem people have really focused on the Next Generation cutting-edge stuff and not necessarily the boring like.
[2023-02-06T16:35:50.704Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  this is already deployed.
[2023-02-06T16:36:21.833Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: There's just this one that we're trying to get into verifiable credentials working group The Hope is we are going to try it in the next couple of months but we are going to need like Partners to like other vendors to implement it as well it's fairly easy to implement like it's already there and done and if you've done EDSA doing ecdsa is like very very minor modifications and changes but it's work that needs to be done so I'm just giving a heads up that.
[2023-02-06T16:36:22.257Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  you know we are looking.
[2023-02-06T16:36:40.380Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:36:47.020Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Companies to go yes we have government customers or yes we have University customers or state governments where we know that this is a requirement and so we want to help you know push this standard through w3c as well so that's just a heads up if you're interested in helping with that please let me know that's it.
[2023-02-06T16:36:47.098Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q-
[2023-02-06T16:36:54.124Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you buddy does anybody have any questions for money before we move on to the next topic.
[2023-02-06T16:36:55.594Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:37:07.815Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay we can always Circle back if we have questions or mono we can always revisit this at a more dedicated call if we need to it sometime.
[2023-02-06T16:37:12.117Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey Sharon you have before now.
[2023-02-06T16:37:18.601Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	plugfest slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1SuyKPLmb1KqLPEsfDnzaBtd1GpGjuHH9e04RoWDojC4/edit?usp=sharing
[2023-02-06T16:37:22.582Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack plugfest3
[2023-02-06T16:37:34.815Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Sharon_Leu
[2023-02-06T16:37:44.519Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Topic: Sharon_Leu - Plugfest 3
[2023-02-06T16:37:47.195Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: Great I am putting a slide deck I'm going to talk very very fast this is just for discussion purposes only and I will also try to share my screen screen sharing failed okay so I'm going to just talk and I'd the slides are in the chat essentially wanted to share a proposal so this is where we have talked a lot oh thank you about what it is that we could do next and.
[2023-02-06T16:37:47.559Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu:  here's where we landed and.
[2023-02-06T16:37:54.848Z]	<David_Baumgartner>	@Manu: I'd be interested to help. Perhaps we can set up a call. David   david.baumgartner@e-duproof.com
[2023-02-06T16:38:21.478Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: Make sure to have a few like have share this hear your comments before we make this official so here's our approach that we are preparing and so just to review the next slide just shares our overall goal so like why does an organization like jobs for the future care about plugfest essentially our goal is to build a functional learning and employment record which means that individuals using these and Elly are through like you know all of the things in the stack including the wall.
[2023-02-06T16:38:22.066Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu:  it can store multiple credentials issued by multiple issuers.
[2023-02-06T16:38:30.370Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:38:53.109Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: Of control and choice over how they store and share their credentials and obviously that the credentials themselves demonstrate that we are able to then demonstrate some kind of utility to the credentials ecosystem like for example credentials are used for decision-making right so if you go to the next slide this is where I think we have made some really great progress our first plugfest we showed that there were many wallets actually that can display verifiable credentials and that the.
[2023-02-06T16:38:53.557Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu:  Giles themselves.
[2023-02-06T16:39:21.946Z]	<PL>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:39:28.107Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: Student are sort of useful in being unpacked this most recent second plugfest we were able to demonstrate that actually open badges for multiple issuers could be issued to a wallet and that while it's could hold them and that issuers can issue to multiple wallet type so I think that we have made some really good progress towards the multiple issuers multiple credentials and so I think that as we were thinking about what the next step is if you look at slide 4 we heard a lot.
[2023-02-06T16:39:28.726Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu:  lot of really great ideas and the hard thing for us to do is to think about what.
[2023-02-06T16:40:03.348Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: Right small step versus what was a giant leap right so some of the ideas that we had heard from you all and others was that presentation exchange verification by relying party while it to wallet semantic interoperability user experience were all really important and we agree that all of them were important but we needed to pick the right next one and so starting in slide 5 you'll see what is our proposal for plugfest 3 so plugfest 3 we think is the right next small step.
[2023-02-06T16:40:03.884Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu:  does in order to have the entire sort of presentation request use of the.
[2023-02-06T16:40:39.628Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: I'm integration with applicant tracking systems or student Information Systems all of that I think we need to First focus on presentation exchange workflow so our proposed technical exercise is a verifier request a set of credentials from the holder holder selects three and this is just a number I made up could be to write relevant credentials from the wallets the holder presents to the verifier in form of verifiable presentation and then the verifier is able to verify the authenticity.
[2023-02-06T16:40:40.310Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu:  city of the VP as well as the individual VCS so that's our general.
[2023-02-06T16:40:56.435Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Good, solid, realistic proposal!
[2023-02-06T16:41:10.686Z]	<PL>	This is a great next step!
[2023-02-06T16:41:12.772Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: And and I guess we'll just run through these really fast so inside six it's just our I think what we wanted to control is the verifiable credentials were thinking that we would provide the set of credentials to be used that we might provide some sort of standardized issue a registry and that we would go with the two protocols that really stood out from plug has to and perhaps controversial e.d. emphasize unless they.
[2023-02-06T16:41:13.094Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu:  really bring their game face game.
[2023-02-06T16:41:41.217Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:41:46.593Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: The like sort of did comforter call stuff that we think that we still need to discuss is like what does the verifier request to look like and is there a version of a playground that we can invest in as a resource for this community and then we think the timeline will still be about 3 to 4 months of work and so if you think that this is the technical activities are scoped to be like too hard so it would take something like five months or too easy like you could do it in a weekend.
[2023-02-06T16:41:47.084Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu:  that that is something that we would love feedback on as well.
[2023-02-06T16:41:55.578Z]	<BRIAN>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:42:09.017Z]	<PL>	When  you say "verifier request" is the referencing the query from the verifier asking for the credential types they wish to see in the VP?
[2023-02-06T16:42:21.986Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: And then finally how we want to think about participation so again we want to emphasize the wallet functionality like users of the wallet can curate verifiable presentation and so we will focus on the presentation aspect so most of the work we anticipate will be for the wallet implementers we do want to start scoping verify or participation even though we were talking about the playground because we anticipate like the next small step after this being an integration with really verifiers so we want their feedback as.
[2023-02-06T16:42:22.605Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu:  part of this process as well obviously develop some tools that I'm very.
[2023-02-06T16:42:30.639Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(VC_EDU)>	@PL Yes
[2023-02-06T16:42:42.226Z]	<PL>	@Simone  - thanks
[2023-02-06T16:42:43.430Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:42:51.746Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: The future who do want to participate in this verifiable credentials ecosystem could easily Implement in their own context as well as a set of reference implementations that people can take a look at to what mountain was saying earlier like if we could pull some examples it might make it easier for people to adopt so I'm going to stop talking realize this is really fast and if anyone has any questions happy to engage either now or later if there are other topics that people want to discuss.
[2023-02-06T16:43:15.221Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Picture a testimony answered a question for Phil but I thought we might just talk about it out loud anyway and he says when you say verify request is this referencing the query from the verifier asking for the credential types they wish to see in the VP and it is a credential types or is it certain credentials or Zach to be figured out.
[2023-02-06T16:43:18.161Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:43:33.839Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: I think that we were saying credential okay so the answer is yes and I think that the answer is that it's a type like it's both that it's a type of credential but because we're limiting the set of credentials it will be end up like functionally being this specific example.
[2023-02-06T16:43:37.270Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to note verifier playground...
[2023-02-06T16:43:45.107Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I don't see my name is are you in the queue for this topic but look I say okay go ahead.
[2023-02-06T16:43:48.311Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Manu_Sporny
[2023-02-06T16:43:52.153Z]	<PL>	q+
[2023-02-06T16:44:13.481Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes just to note we are adding verification to the playground as we speak we took a risk and thought maybe plugfest 3 might have something to do with verification plus it's something that the ecosystem needs anyway so we are actively working on that right now meaning engineer's engaged writing code in testing right now I don't have an ETA on that yet but.
[2023-02-06T16:44:13.869Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  we're hoping where you know.
[2023-02-06T16:44:44.138Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:44:46.713Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Away from being able to go live with that in the Hope was that we'd be able to set that up before plugfest three kicked off clearly like we have no idea if that is going to line up perfectly it's not going to line up perfectly like what you already know that but we're very willing to like adjust to make sure that it lines up and hopefully can be one of the tools that's used for verification during plugfest three the other thing that.
[2023-02-06T16:44:47.050Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  we're actively working on is building in oid C2.
[2023-02-06T16:45:16.209Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Playground as well in an attempt to make it easier on everyone so we should be able to support both of these protocols through the playground and we should have verification in the playground but I can't give it a date yet because our engineering teams will probably kill me if I say the wrong date so it's on its way just as a heads up in the hopes that it helps us coordinate a bit better that's it.
[2023-02-06T16:45:25.673Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: I think that's wonderful and I wonder if like offline we can connect about what you think the estimated timeline is and whether it actually like how much of a mismatch it is.
[2023-02-06T16:45:33.738Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep that sounds sounds good and happy to make it into a community discussion Community discussion as well so either way.
[2023-02-06T16:45:34.206Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:45:39.797Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: It's great - thank you so long are you also thank you for podcaster.
[2023-02-06T16:45:48.112Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack PL
[2023-02-06T16:46:12.604Z]	<Transcriber>	PL: I just well I just wanted to can you hear me okay first of all I think this is a terrific Next Step Sharon so this is really helpful you made a brief comment but I'm not sure I can connect it properly about the notion of this being part of the workflow in the context of job skills and and and the job submission workflow to an 80s system for example and in so I just wanted to ask if you would.
[2023-02-06T16:46:13.075Z]	<Transcriber>	PL:  make a further elaboration are you.
[2023-02-06T16:46:43.135Z]	<Transcriber>	PL: As something that an 80s system would use something like VC chappie as an API to to consume presentations and or the other side of it when the DCA when the 80s passes information about candidates that they've matched on to an HR is system a similar process using a VP to pass data through a VC chappy interface.
[2023-02-06T16:46:47.820Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	(ATS = Applicant Tracking System, for HR)
[2023-02-06T16:46:58.994Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:47:12.733Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: I think it could be any of those Phil I think I said that quickly because it was as an example I think there are definitely a ton of verifier and relying party endpoints and I think that as like as we think about the next small step after this I want to think about I'm really understanding the requirements necessary to do any number of those and so I think this will give us information that will allow us to find out more information about how that integration would work whether with an hras system.
[2023-02-06T16:47:13.364Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu:  ATS system student information.
[2023-02-06T16:47:16.706Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: Any of the other kinds of endpoints.
[2023-02-06T16:47:17.877Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:47:19.775Z]	<Transcriber>	PL: Thank you that's helpful thanks.
[2023-02-06T16:47:46.327Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Great thank you Sharon and Sharon if you want we can work on a an email and you said we see I do this to keep talking about this with the community as we get ready right thank you okay don't see anything else here in the the Q about plugfest so we have about lunar 15 minutes left so Anthony the floor is yours for the remainder of the call.
[2023-02-06T16:47:53.440Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Anthony_F._Camilleri
[2023-02-06T16:48:07.139Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Topic: Anthony_F._Camilleri - European Learning Model
[2023-02-06T16:48:21.776Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:48:32.134Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	European Data Model being released this March
[2023-02-06T16:49:05.637Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(VC_EDU)>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:49:08.938Z]	<David_Baumgartner>	present+
[2023-02-06T16:49:18.340Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	V2 European Digital Credentials Infrastructure -- moving into JSON-LD (from XML)
[2023-02-06T16:49:49.715Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Released as an online webservice -- anyone can issue to wallets, open source code, Docker images, online verifier.
[2023-02-06T16:50:24.717Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Two flavors of credentials: 1) anyone can register, 2) trusted issuer credentials linked to trusted issuer regsitry.
[2023-02-06T16:50:35.502Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Visual representation in the credentials
[2023-02-06T16:50:51.800Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Issuer will be the signer but can represent many issuers.
[2023-02-06T16:51:24.562Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Wallets can extend expiration every 3-4 years.
[2023-02-06T16:51:29.874Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(VC_EDU)>	https://github.com/european-commission-empl/European-Learning-Model/
[2023-02-06T16:52:02.710Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	6 Million user wallets
[2023-02-06T16:52:10.838Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Mapping credentials against the ESCO DB.
[2023-02-06T16:52:35.736Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Translated into 30 languages (all EU languages & neighboring countries)
[2023-02-06T16:53:15.312Z]	<PL>	Great to hear a timeline for DID support in the EU
[2023-02-06T16:53:17.152Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	No support for DIDs in March but will aim to do this by end of year EBSI & OIDC
[2023-02-06T16:53:18.943Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab>	Thought he was going to say "integrating DID support until the end of time" 😂
[2023-02-06T16:53:34.397Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(VC_EDU)>	EBSI:DID method supported initially
[2023-02-06T16:53:36.676Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Launching an AI that does natural language processing
[2023-02-06T16:53:45.701Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks @Simone
[2023-02-06T16:53:58.653Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	(robot not working for Anthony)
[2023-02-06T16:54:03.460Z]	<PL>	https://skillman.eu/escodatabase/
[2023-02-06T16:54:34.435Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(VC_EDU)>	ELMO - https://github.com/emrex-eu/elmo-schemas
[2023-02-06T16:54:36.162Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Integrating with ELMO and open to other mapping integrations
[2023-02-06T16:54:40.179Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:54:41.022Z]	<manu>	Anthony and the EU gets the "VC Overachiever of the Year" award for 2023... and it's not even March yet! :P
[2023-02-06T16:54:41.372Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	mapping collaboration between ELM and CTDL would be very useful
[2023-02-06T16:54:57.345Z]	<Nate_Otto>	I will definitely be going back to listen to the recording of your presentation, Anthony, to take detailed notes.
[2023-02-06T16:55:13.807Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(VC_EDU)>	standing ovation
[2023-02-06T16:55:20.408Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And that was an incredible update I hope we can get you back here early March to soon as you're ready to really dig into this for us because that was a lot of information and super exciting stuff that's great Phil we have you in please happen if you took yourself out okay we'll stop there but yeah that is excellent and also I just have one question just keeping an eye on time is a lot of us in the u.s. space.
[2023-02-06T16:55:20.876Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  I've been talking a lot about open Badges and could you talk a little bit about.
[2023-02-06T16:55:25.940Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The alignment between those two.
[2023-02-06T16:55:30.551Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Within the work you've been doing I'm sorry and with with open badges.
[2023-02-06T16:55:33.727Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(VC_EDU)>	+1 to mapping between CTDL and ELM
[2023-02-06T16:56:20.577Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(VC_EDU)>	with OB3 being VC that integration should be easier...if not automatic
[2023-02-06T16:56:22.911Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Open Badges support on roadmap --planning for a data model mapping & wallet should accept different VCs like Open Badges.
[2023-02-06T16:56:31.123Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:56:32.009Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Excellent thank you.
[2023-02-06T16:56:49.316Z]	<PL>	Wonderful meeting Kerri - what an update!
[2023-02-06T16:57:00.914Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey everybody that was great for a first try doing it open Agenda I'd like to thank all of you for all of these rich topics between a badge credentialing and crypto sweets and yeah and what's going on in Europe holy cow there's a lot of stuff thank you very much looking forward to doing this again and I'm Odin Susan I see you in the queue would you like to say something okay.
[2023-02-06T16:57:01.252Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  all right then.
[2023-02-06T16:57:01.417Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-02-06T16:57:08.711Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	thanks all! so many great opportunities for collaboration!
[2023-02-06T16:57:09.805Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Have an excellent week and I will see you again soon thank you.
[2023-02-06T16:57:16.818Z]	<Taylor_(LEF)>	Tyty!!

