[2020-03-24T16:09:11.389Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:09:13.952Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:09:18.401Z]	<rhiaro>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:09:22.215Z]	<justin_r>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:09:48.031Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:10:17.747Z]	<JeffO-Stl>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:10:21.643Z]	<jonathan_holt>	present+ jonathan_holt
[2020-03-24T16:10:58.384Z]	<JeffO-Stl>	Roger!
[2020-03-24T16:11:08.329Z]	<JeffO-Stl>	Happily and WELL worth it!
[2020-03-24T16:11:10.464Z]	<JeffO-Stl>	;)
[2020-03-24T16:11:20.812Z]	<juan>	my connection is a little wonky this time of day with everyone WFH but I can scribe if no one volunteers
[2020-03-24T16:11:36.185Z]	<juan>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:11:56.307Z]	<joel>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:12:01.355Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:13:52.093Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:15:02.508Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:17:25.852Z]	<jonathan_holt>	scribe: jonathan_holt
[2020-03-24T16:17:35.532Z]	<Orie>	I can
[2020-03-24T16:18:20.524Z]	<jonathan_holt>	topic: intro and re-intro
[2020-03-24T16:18:39.943Z]	<kimhd>	nikosft
[2020-03-24T16:18:45.184Z]	<kimhd>	^ new handle
[2020-03-24T16:18:55.425Z]	<kimhd>	javaservlets too
[2020-03-24T16:18:56.525Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: anyone new to the call?
[2020-03-24T16:19:31.443Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: any reintroductions?
[2020-03-24T16:19:46.208Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2020-03-24T16:20:00.764Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:20:26.749Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu:  I work at a company called Digital Bizaar.  I work on specs and stuff
[2020-03-24T16:20:36.315Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: announcements.  the world is on hold
[2020-03-24T16:20:37.104Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Announcements and Reminders
[2020-03-24T16:20:50.674Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu:  KNowID is postpones,  IIW is going virtual.
[2020-03-24T16:21:02.866Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: excited about openspaces virtual
[2020-03-24T16:21:42.983Z]	<kimhd>	notes on scribing for all: when you're scribing and there's a topic transition, type Topic: <new topic>
[2020-03-24T16:21:53.667Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Identitywoman :  oopenspace virtual.  we will have presenatation. it is gonna be fun!
[2020-03-24T16:22:14.145Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu:  the whole world has discovered work from home.
[2020-03-24T16:22:15.938Z]	<JeffO-Stl>	Agree.  Will be fascinating!
[2020-03-24T16:22:27.128Z]	<kimhd>	I'm trying to catch it as I go, but now that we're auto-publishing, it gets trickier
[2020-03-24T16:22:44.837Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: Identiverse scheduled in June, no updates. hoping to get back to "normal" by June.
[2020-03-24T16:22:50.035Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q+
[2020-03-24T16:22:53.064Z]	<kimhd>	as _we_ go, that is
[2020-03-24T16:23:01.625Z]	<juan>	they still haven't cancelled EIC in Munich? https://www.kuppingercole.com/events/eic2019
[2020-03-24T16:23:37.464Z]	<Identitywoman>	This isn't ending for months ... the governor of california said we would be in our houses for 8-12 weeks.
[2020-03-24T16:24:20.819Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-03-24T16:24:28.726Z]	<jonathan_holt>	jonathan_holt:  I am the new CMIO chief medical informatics officer at ConsenSys Health,  we are sponsoring a hackathon will be officially announced this afternoon. more to follow.
[2020-03-24T16:24:32.971Z]	<juan>	I know-- perhaps since Germany is on lockdown they just assume people it will be shut down
[2020-03-24T16:24:34.906Z]	<juan>	may 15
[2020-03-24T16:25:20.687Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-03-24T16:25:28.688Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q-
[2020-03-24T16:25:29.950Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack jonathan_holt
[2020-03-24T16:25:44.076Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-03-24T16:25:46.233Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: Topic: action items
[2020-03-24T16:26:24.284Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/108
[2020-03-24T16:27:00.419Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu:  i think we have processed this.  I want someone with more github that can take a look?
[2020-03-24T16:27:25.267Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-03-24T16:27:28.685Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Action Items
[2020-03-24T16:27:30.076Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack manu
[2020-03-24T16:28:31.338Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu: this is still a CCG work item?  I don't know that we have to do a FFA... then the chairs need to acknowledge it as a document in WG
[2020-03-24T16:28:44.398Z]	<jonathan_holt>	burn:  we did this at F2F.
[2020-03-24T16:29:05.348Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu:  note it, redirect it then archive.
[2020-03-24T16:29:19.868Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: I believe we have done all that.
[2020-03-24T16:29:35.765Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: not sure you mean by redirect?
[2020-03-24T16:29:56.672Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-use-cases/
[2020-03-24T16:30:17.970Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Manu:  it is done, one second.  the only thing not done, we need to update the spec and description. whoops. that's the right link.  it should point to the new spec.
[2020-03-24T16:30:41.975Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... with a new redirect to the new spec.  should take 10 minutes,  unarchive, link then re-archive
[2020-03-24T16:31:09.884Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: one, update URL at top, two add meta redirect to the CCG use-case to DID WG use case document
[2020-03-24T16:31:33.544Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: ... in the backend it gets updated to the new one.
[2020-03-24T16:31:50.384Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu:  I will work on it.
[2020-03-24T16:32:07.069Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/105
[2020-03-24T16:32:32.803Z]	<Orie>	The following repos will be orhpaned: https://github.com/w3c-dvcg
[2020-03-24T16:32:36.053Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu:  third issue.  closing digital verification comm group. but we will have some orphaned issues.  Dimitry you got assigned.
[2020-03-24T16:32:49.074Z]	<jonathan_holt>	dmitriz:  I think we migrated?
[2020-03-24T16:33:01.254Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: one problem. many of the URL still point to the old one?
[2020-03-24T16:33:08.147Z]	<jonathan_holt>	dmitriz: right, right.
[2020-03-24T16:33:33.289Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2020-03-24T16:33:40.244Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack Orie
[2020-03-24T16:33:42.392Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: dmitriz give feedback.
[2020-03-24T16:33:55.290Z]	<sumita>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:34:02.423Z]	<kimhd>	which org do you need to be admin of?
[2020-03-24T16:34:37.574Z]	<kimhd>	I'm seeing if I'm admin, not sure
[2020-03-24T16:34:41.464Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Orie: can i become an admin to do some repo upgrade.  I can't do anything but open issues.  if it was in CCG I could but if I am admin of other WG
[2020-03-24T16:34:43.445Z]	<kimhd>	may need DB folks
[2020-03-24T16:34:54.079Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: Kim can you do it?
[2020-03-24T16:35:10.369Z]	<kimhd>	you're admin too Joe
[2020-03-24T16:35:33.729Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-examples
[2020-03-24T16:35:37.195Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/111
[2020-03-24T16:35:45.569Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: those are the issues we were queued to discuss. next is BC examples. Orie please intro to us.
[2020-03-24T16:36:16.064Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Orie:  this was created ages ago. idea was to create repo with examples of all the formats.  so implementers can look at real data.
[2020-03-24T16:36:49.172Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... the concept is a repo of VC examples will allow us to check in real world examples that are verifiable with examples that work.
[2020-03-24T16:36:49.357Z]	<kimhd>	done. fyi, going forward, the following people are admins. Christopher, Joe, Manu, Markus, Dave Longley, Orie, David Lehn
[2020-03-24T16:37:04.804Z]	<kimhd>	if any one needs access, ping that set of ppl
[2020-03-24T16:37:20.503Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... there was a proposal that genesh would be have a role.  needs one more person.  this could be a base point for many other initiatives.
[2020-03-24T16:37:38.164Z]	<gannan>	yes interested!
[2020-03-24T16:37:40.964Z]	<gannan>	having mic issues
[2020-03-24T16:37:41.663Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: Ok, cool!  Genesh are you around?  interested in being an editor?  Genesh?
[2020-03-24T16:37:51.744Z]	<gannan>	s/Genesh/Ganesh/
[2020-03-24T16:37:59.875Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Orie: he does have an open PR to make him editor.
[2020-03-24T16:38:19.586Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: I think, this makes the criteria.  any questions?
[2020-03-24T16:38:25.111Z]	<manu>	q+ to note some requests
[2020-03-24T16:38:31.236Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack manu
[2020-03-24T16:38:34.875Z]	<jonathan_holt>	orie:  i just made him code owner. adding examples.
[2020-03-24T16:39:07.107Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu:  I want to highlight some concerns.  The goal is to add as many examples as possible. There is also some talk about test-suite?  is that part of this?
[2020-03-24T16:40:08.152Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-03-24T16:40:12.289Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Orie:  so, TBD.  my intention is to provide some other CCG work items.  problem we just don't have examples out there.  use the BC examples and helpful to have everything in one place.
[2020-03-24T16:40:14.746Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack manu
[2020-03-24T16:41:05.098Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-03-24T16:41:06.035Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu:  I'm, i'm ... that's fine.  I am concerned about smashing this all together.  ... In the past, it as always required us to pull it out into another repo..   just a note of conern.
[2020-03-24T16:41:19.056Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: any other comments?
[2020-03-24T16:41:29.389Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/charter/
[2020-03-24T16:42:00.652Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu:  moving on.  next topic:  the chairs are in process of updating the charter.  there are a couple where we are out of sync.  we want to clean it up.
[2020-03-24T16:42:21.764Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: CCG Process
[2020-03-24T16:42:22.548Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_7noTaKsqN-TBR7VgECpy-H-zS05rNds81GyRw95jE/edit
[2020-03-24T16:42:35.114Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... especially as our roles have migrated to more registry related approach.
[2020-03-24T16:43:09.679Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... there are two parts i'd like to highlight.  one is electing chairs.
[2020-03-24T16:43:58.885Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu:  most of what I am going to walk thru doesn't necessarily have consensus.  but I wanted to have a conversation about this.
[2020-03-24T16:44:08.224Z]	<Orie>	i am ready
[2020-03-24T16:44:23.779Z]	<Orie>	JoeAndrieu: super powers activate
[2020-03-24T16:44:27.284Z]	<Orie>	...
[2020-03-24T16:45:10.870Z]	<Orie>	...See the document regarding the current proposal.
[2020-03-24T16:45:46.857Z]	<Orie>	... once approved, we will be open for new elections.
[2020-03-24T16:46:17.805Z]	<Orie>	... in case there are vacancies, remaining chairs may appoint, hold an election or wait.
[2020-03-24T16:46:33.653Z]	<Orie>	... if no action is taken, seats will be open at the next election.
[2020-03-24T16:46:52.763Z]	<Orie>	... no limits on relection
[2020-03-24T16:50:08.396Z]	<Tom_S__-_USAA>	present+
[2020-03-24T16:50:12.804Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-03-24T16:50:17.324Z]	<Orie>	... so thats out thoughts, see the document.
[2020-03-24T16:50:27.332Z]	<manu>	q+ sounds good at a high level
[2020-03-24T16:50:34.024Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack manu
[2020-03-24T16:50:38.858Z]	<Orie>	manu: sounds good...
[2020-03-24T16:51:10.679Z]	<Orie>	... seems a little more complicated than what we might need... seems generally good
[2020-03-24T16:51:38.631Z]	<Orie>	JoeAndrieu: feel free to comment on the doc, via the mailinglist or now in IRC or voice
[2020-03-24T16:51:54.758Z]	<Orie>	... we wanted it to be simple, try and use the simplest option first.
[2020-03-24T16:52:03.674Z]	<Orie>	... Kim? Chris?
[2020-03-24T16:52:21.473Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-03-24T16:52:29.344Z]	<Orie>	kim: continuity vs desire to bring in new blood....
[2020-03-24T16:52:51.672Z]	<Orie>	... we were thinking that chris might give up his seat first...
[2020-03-24T16:53:03.165Z]	<Orie>	... we dont get paid for this....
[2020-03-24T16:53:16.664Z]	<Orie>	... if people are excited, we would love to support that
[2020-03-24T16:53:26.442Z]	<Orie>	... we want to leave room for new leadership
[2020-03-24T16:53:31.984Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-03-24T16:54:19.856Z]	<Orie>	chrisA: as kim mentioned, i've been here the longest, and there is interest by others to participate... im still excited, but I will hold my gunpowder, and let someone else run... i may run again... or fill a vacancy
[2020-03-24T16:54:31.284Z]	<Orie>	... in general our community runs off no principle objections
[2020-03-24T16:54:52.591Z]	<Orie>	... we suspect many elections won't require a formal vote
[2020-03-24T16:54:54.978Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	s/principle/principled/
[2020-03-24T16:55:14.598Z]	<Orie>	... there are some edge cases, we want to make simpler, but i can live with it as is
[2020-03-24T16:55:36.005Z]	<Orie>	... we have something powerful here, community groups can last for a long time, need long term support and leadership
[2020-03-24T16:55:55.085Z]	<Orie>	... one of our unique advantages is continuity
[2020-03-24T16:55:56.670Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-03-24T16:56:12.951Z]	<Orie>	JoeAndrieu: thats how we are approaching the election...
[2020-03-24T16:56:30.808Z]	<Orie>	Topic: Removing a Chair
[2020-03-24T16:57:00.167Z]	<Orie>	JoeAndrieu: what are the situations where is would be appropriate to remove a chair?
[2020-03-24T16:57:17.491Z]	<Orie>	... things beyond what the W3C would require?
[2020-03-24T16:57:35.507Z]	<Orie>	... we have committed to "Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct"
[2020-03-24T16:57:52.988Z]	<Orie>	... in terms of removing a chair, we are not talking about that...
[2020-03-24T16:58:15.338Z]	<Orie>	... there are times when people are complaint, but where the group feels that they should still be removed...
[2020-03-24T16:58:56.424Z]	<Orie>	ChrisA: I've been in standards for 30 years... we want to address the 80-20 / 90-10... we feel like the W3C standards address the edge cases...
[2020-03-24T16:59:15.724Z]	<Orie>	... most common reasons: absence, not keeping up, letting other chairs do all the work,
[2020-03-24T16:59:24.417Z]	<Orie>	... need a mechanism to give them a warning...
[2020-03-24T16:59:42.025Z]	<Orie>	... there can be cases where the person just disapears, and there is no response...
[2020-03-24T17:00:08.297Z]	<Orie>	... we have all experienced cases where the leadership is struggling to work together... styles, communicatiions...
[2020-03-24T17:00:38.054Z]	<Orie>	... something I wanted us to have: things should not escalate immediatly to the public... we should have direct converstation internally first.
[2020-03-24T17:01:09.210Z]	<Orie>	JoeAndrieu: lets walk through the bullet points:
[2020-03-24T17:01:24.112Z]	<Orie>	... chairs may be removed from their duties through a no confidence vote...
[2020-03-24T17:01:49.631Z]	<Orie>	... see the removal of a chair doc here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_7noTaKsqN-TBR7VgECpy-H-zS05rNds81GyRw95jE/edit
[2020-03-24T17:04:39.328Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-03-24T17:04:40.723Z]	<Orie>	... chris thoughts on game theory? only 1 call for 1 chair at a time...
[2020-03-24T17:04:57.753Z]	<Orie>	... those are the bullet points, please provide feedback
[2020-03-24T17:04:59.903Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-03-24T17:05:04.457Z]	<Orie>	ChrisA: one of the key things here is...
[2020-03-24T17:05:37.167Z]	<Orie>	... we want this to resemble the consensus building process our community has... on the other hand there may be good reasons for this...
[2020-03-24T17:05:53.967Z]	<Orie>	... for complaints about the W3C standards, use that mechanism...
[2020-03-24T17:06:15.148Z]	<Orie>	... this is for objections to leadership direction, not professional standards and ethics...
[2020-03-24T17:06:29.084Z]	<Orie>	... there could be legit reasons why a chair, isn't working out...
[2020-03-24T17:06:47.103Z]	<Orie>	... we want to provide ways for the community to allow negotiation and collaboration
[2020-03-24T17:06:59.845Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-03-24T17:07:10.026Z]	<Orie>	JoeAndrieu: questions or feedback?
[2020-03-24T17:07:30.757Z]	<Orie>	... please use email, comment on google doc....
[2020-03-24T17:07:47.077Z]	<Orie>	... expect to see this chartered first, then we will do the election
[2020-03-24T17:07:47.385Z]	<manu>	+1 for moving this stuff forward.
[2020-03-24T17:07:55.212Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2020-03-24T17:08:25.790Z]	<Orie>	JoeAndrieu: hopefully this will last us
[2020-03-24T17:08:41.936Z]	<Orie>	... again, please provide feedback.
[2020-03-24T17:08:57.127Z]	<juan>	thanks all
