Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and russell_h_(mesur.io) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-09-05-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-09-05-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-09-05

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Sep&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and russell_h_(mesur.io)
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Russell H (mesur.io), TallTed // Ted Thibodeau 
  (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Benjamin Collins, Orie Steele, Coran, 
  Arun, Ted Thibodeau, Arun - Safari

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): I can describe.
russell_h_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/565
<orie> We have an example here: 
  https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose-test-suite/tree/main/testcases/secured-vc-with-status
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/566
Nis Jespersen :  Will host
Nis Jespersen :  566, Multiple status lists, unclear abt 
  connection with jose-cose
<orie> for example "false" vs "true" 
  https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose-test-suite/blob/main/testcases/secured-vc-with-status/spec.yaml#L52
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/593
Orie Steele:  [Discussion] yes, jose-cose-test-suite is 
  appropriate place for this
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Nis Jespersen :  593, Remove Exporter Fields from Postman 
  Collections, approvals?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/863
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/863#issuecomment-1705928321
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Nis Jespersen :  Addresses agproduct props that should be on 
  product, and removes upc
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/543
Interop issues, from top, starting with 543
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/544
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/551
Nis Jespersen :  Ben and I discussion today. nudging self, will 
  look into this soon
Orie Steele:  If it's ready for pr sure, but I didn't see poke 
  comment.
Nis Jespersen :  Reason it hasn't progressed is because I hadn't 
  looked at it. But yes let's talk
Orie Steele:  What's it need. commentary on directionality?
Nis Jespersen :  Christina pointing at sentence that's DID Auth
Orie Steele:  Should be adding section on [?]. Any comment other 
  than poking yourself. If others have thoughts, briefly discussion 
  here could prompt others to say "oh I have a comment", take swing 
  at
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/551
Nis Jespersen :  Other thoughts on 544?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/863
Nis Jespersen :  Pr did pass check
Nis Jespersen :  Let's look, 863 [...]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/863
Nis Jespersen :  Another approval on 863?
Orie Steele:  Approved
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/539
Nis Jespersen :  Merging. Closing related issues 278, 281
Orie Steele:  Yeah, clearly 400. Would expect most 
  implementations to 500 by default
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/562
Nis Jespersen :  Ready for pr. moving on
Orie Steele:  It's only showing up in readme, tutorial still 
  needs to be updated but that's it, 1 occurrence
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/539
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/453
Nis Jespersen :  Great, thanks
<arun> Hello everyone, I would like to bring up a few questions. 
  Please let me know when it is time for open discussions.
Orie Steele:  To be efficient, we can do 1 jump here. There's 
  open issues under discussion for VC 2, to restrict requested 
  registered media types. Let's not make any changes until we know 
  what work we need. Go to working group, "we only need to 
  implement SE[?] JWT". 
Nis Jespersen :  Agreed. Seems like chris is assigned. Marked 
  ready for pr, seems in line with what you said
Orie can do it, just make updates when v2
Orie Steele:  Yeah arun, ask your questions in chat
<nis> Arun, you are still muted :)
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
Nis Jespersen :  Next 405, very related, Support for SD-JWT. 
  Orie?
Orie Steele:  There's update. We updated example plugin to use 
  SD-JWT by default. As mentioned proposal to withdrow non SD-JWT 
  use cases. We have this new example of SD-JWT in jose-cose test 
  suite. There's been progress in upstream suite, but we should 
  drive concensus in working group for just SD-JWT. Regular JWT 
  just doesn't have the features. Will leave link to that issue, as 
  did previously.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/584
Nis Jespersen :  Over to 584, Automated interop testing needs to 
  provide scopes values
Orie Steele:  Related to changes we made in scoping of tests? not 
  sure what we need to do
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/582
Nis Jespersen :  Let's wait for chris, come back to
Ted Thibodeau:  Idea was one company might have multiple 
  implementations, focus should be implementation not company
Orie Steele:  Acceptable to say, "transmute ts", "transmute ts 
  rust"? How support multiple implementations?
Ted Thibodeau:  Sure
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/530
Nis Jespersen :  Any volunteers?
Orie Steele:  Don't think there's diff in docs. No-one only 
  contributing to interop afaik
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/588
Nis Jespersen :  Probably not. ready for pr, mahmoud appropriate 
  owner, moving on
Nis Jespersen :  588, Review the CHAPI Playground and Newly Added 
  Protocols
Orie Steele:  There's been updates to chapi, openid connect for 
  vc-api support
Nis Jespersen :  Comments? thoughts on direction?
<arun> Coran and I were trying to unmute and speak. We were not 
  able to. I’ll go ahead and ask those questions here.
Benjamin Collins:  Sentence, trace api focused on 
  non-interaction? kind of worried abt intermingling standards, 
  adding dependencies in other places
<nis> Yes, please Arun...
Orie Steele:  Problem is chapi experience is better than it is 
  now. feels wrong to say "we don't like it but don't have better" 
  fine to say "this is best but we don't like it". Have watched 
  chapi, openid has not created better experience.
Nis Jespersen :  Other thoughts on 588?
<arun> Are there reference implementations of the spec or is it 
  expected that each organisation implement their own following the 
  spec? I’ll have more questions based on this answer. My apologies 
  in advance of this is not the right forum for my questions. I see 
  that the chat here is focused on the standards than 
  implementation itself.
Orie Steele:  Try on chrome? or firefox, in case using safari
Nis Jespersen :  Yes right place for this. no ref implementation, 
  but are you aware of our test suite? there are postman 
  collections you can download run against your implementation, 
  should make it clear
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/transmute-industries/api.did.actor
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/tree/main/packages/traceability-tests
Orie Steele:  Looking for ref implementations for spec. at least 
  open source api.did.actor project used in beginning, but drifted 
  far out of date at this pt.
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/tree/main/tests
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/528
<arun> I joined from the browser
<arun> ok
<tallted> Arun, Coran -- depending on your OS, you might also 
  need to grant your browser access to your mic and/or camera
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/529
<arun> I did grant permissions, apparently none of this works
<orie> Sorry about Jitsi, its what we have to use.
<arun> With respect to with
<arun> That will help
<nis> nis@transmute.industries
<arun> Thank you
Nis Jespersen :  Doing one more issue.
Nis Jespersen :  Yeah sure
Nis Jespersen :  Thanks all
