[2023-09-05T17:30:16.592Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-09-05T17:30:16.593Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-09-05T17:30:23.639Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-09-05T17:30:35.256Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-09-05T17:30:43.020Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-09-05T17:32:50.281Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-09-05T17:32:50.281Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-09-05T17:33:14.480Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_H_(mesur.io): I can describe.
[2023-09-05T17:33:17.287Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2023-09-05T17:33:18.214Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-09-05T17:33:39.801Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-09-05T17:35:32.505Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/565
[2023-09-05T17:35:34.854Z]	<Orie>	We have an example here: https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose-test-suite/tree/main/testcases/secured-vc-with-status
[2023-09-05T17:35:48.020Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/566
[2023-09-05T17:35:50.552Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: will host

interop week, going thru PRs

special issues?
[2023-09-05T17:36:23.184Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	russell: 566, multiple status lists, unclear abt connection with jose-cose
[2023-09-05T17:40:03.010Z]	<Orie>	for example "false" vs "true" https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose-test-suite/blob/main/testcases/secured-vc-with-status/spec.yaml#L52
[2023-09-05T17:42:37.850Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2023-09-05T17:42:44.161Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/593
[2023-09-05T17:42:57.860Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: [discussion] yes, jose-cose-test-suite is appropriate place for this
[2023-09-05T17:43:43.536Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2023-09-05T17:44:48.553Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: 593, Remove Exporter Fields from Postman Collections, approvals?

Great, merging

On to vocab. first from me, takes away /# refs that I hadn't yet updated. This fixes that.

No objections, merging

Last, Russell
[2023-09-05T17:44:49.948Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/863
[2023-09-05T17:46:58.928Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/863#issuecomment-1705928321
[2023-09-05T17:48:22.361Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-09-05T17:48:26.745Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	russell: addresses agproduct props that should be on product, and removes upc

issue with check, seems to be on github's end
[2023-09-05T17:48:32.415Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/543
[2023-09-05T17:48:41.667Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	interop issues, from top, starting with 543
[2023-09-05T17:49:30.089Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/544
[2023-09-05T17:49:57.371Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/551
[2023-09-05T17:50:06.077Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: ben and I discussion today. nudging self, will look into this soon

similar situation 544. same thing

next 551
[2023-09-05T17:50:54.854Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: if it's ready for pr sure, but I didn't see poke comment.
[2023-09-05T17:51:10.805Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: reason it hasn't progressed is because I hadn't looked at it. But yes let's talk
[2023-09-05T17:51:14.730Z]	<Coran>	present+
[2023-09-05T17:51:20.770Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: what's it need. commentary on directionality?
[2023-09-05T17:51:28.615Z]	<Arun>	present+
[2023-09-05T17:51:50.016Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: christina pointing at sentence that's DID Auth
[2023-09-05T17:52:44.704Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: should be adding section on [?]. Any comment other than poking yourself. If others have thoughts, briefly discussion here could prompt others to say "oh I have a comment", take swing at
[2023-09-05T17:53:00.565Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/551
[2023-09-05T17:54:17.426Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: Other thoughts on 544?

Next 551, raised by chris, assigned to chris, chris not here. Any comments on 551? Documentation and Spec needs updating for scope changes

Poking chris
[2023-09-05T17:54:20.389Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/863
[2023-09-05T17:54:23.174Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	russell: pr did pass check
[2023-09-05T17:55:26.734Z]	<nis>	ack arun
[2023-09-05T17:55:31.590Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: let's look, 863 [...]
[2023-09-05T17:56:27.419Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/863
[2023-09-05T17:56:36.381Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: another approval on 863?
[2023-09-05T17:56:41.902Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: approved
[2023-09-05T17:57:32.860Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/539
[2023-09-05T17:58:34.015Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: merging. Closing related issues 278, 281

back to interop. 539, Duplicate JSON Keys in request

From mahmoud, assigned to chris. chris suggests throwing 400.
[2023-09-05T17:59:00.710Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: yeah, clearly 400. Would expect most implementations to 500 by default

I think 400 is the right answer
[2023-09-05T17:59:14.016Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/562
[2023-09-05T17:59:50.596Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: ready for pr. moving on

562, Remove references to JsonWebSignature2020

From mahmoud, assigned to mahmoud

Orie, comment, we've already done this?
[2023-09-05T18:00:17.188Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: It's only showing up in readme, tutorial still needs to be updated but that's it, 1 occurrence
[2023-09-05T18:00:34.782Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/539
[2023-09-05T18:00:49.204Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/453
[2023-09-05T18:01:02.206Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: great, thanks

next 453, Allow JWT in credentials/verify
[2023-09-05T18:02:14.051Z]	<Arun>	Hello everyone, I would like to bring up a few questions. Please let me know when it is time for open discussions.
[2023-09-05T18:02:36.541Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: to be efficient, we can do 1 jump here. There's open issues under discussion for VC 2, to restrict requested registered media types. Let's not make any changes until we know what work we need. Go to working group, "we only need to implement SE[?] JWT". 

Every time see different media type, that's potential case we'd need to support
[2023-09-05T18:03:02.101Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: agreed. Seems like chris is assigned. Marked ready for pr, seems in line with what you said
[2023-09-05T18:03:12.810Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie can do it, just make updates when v2
[2023-09-05T18:04:07.660Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: yeah arun, ask your questions in chat
[2023-09-05T18:04:14.675Z]	<nis>	Arun, you are still muted :)
[2023-09-05T18:04:55.790Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
[2023-09-05T18:05:16.215Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: next 405, very related, Support for SD-JWT. Orie?
[2023-09-05T18:06:41.017Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: there's update. We updated example plugin to use SD-JWT by default. As mentioned proposal to withdrow non SD-JWT use cases. We have this new example of SD-JWT in jose-cose test suite. There's been progress in upstream suite, but we should drive concensus in working group for just SD-JWT. Regular JWT just doesn't have the features. Will leave link to that issue, as did previously.
[2023-09-05T18:06:51.421Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/584
[2023-09-05T18:08:05.822Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: over to 584, Automated interop testing needs to provide scopes values

by chris, assigned to chris

so this is our new client scope variable? don't understand, how could it run without it?

anyone else understand what chris is asking here?

Will just ask him to explain
[2023-09-05T18:08:21.159Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: related to changes we made in scoping of tests? not sure what we need to do
[2023-09-05T18:08:51.950Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/582
[2023-09-05T18:09:45.103Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: let's wait for chris, come back to

582 next, mahmoud, Interop summary page improvements

any opinions? What do we want to express here is it promoting companies or promoting interop?
[2023-09-05T18:10:04.944Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: idea was one company might have multiple implementations, focus should be implementation not company
[2023-09-05T18:10:48.329Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: acceptable to say, "transmute ts", "transmute ts rust"? How support multiple implementations?

We need to update labelling. even in cases with only one implementation. That's thought?
[2023-09-05T18:10:54.205Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: sure
[2023-09-05T18:11:50.604Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/530
[2023-09-05T18:12:15.013Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: any volunteers?

Going to ask Mahmoud if he can take this on.

530, Contract acknowledgments, like with vocab
[2023-09-05T18:12:36.909Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: don't think there's diff in docs. No-one only contributing to interop afaik
[2023-09-05T18:12:48.851Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/588
[2023-09-05T18:12:50.292Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: probably not. ready for pr, mahmoud appropriate owner, moving on
[2023-09-05T18:13:09.529Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: 588, Review the CHAPI Playground and Newly Added Protocols

Orie your ticket?
[2023-09-05T18:15:12.891Z]	<nis>	q+
[2023-09-05T18:15:14.695Z]	<nis>	q+
[2023-09-05T18:15:15.353Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: there's been updates to chapi, openid connect for vc-api support

Asked a few times, couldn't get sense that anyone had added support for openid connect piece

think there's several related issues. First if chapi is worth supporting, acknowledge in doc that it exists? refs? direct ppl to? Could do if feel valuable to implementers, esp in interoperability profile

Also, if don't think any of this chapi playground stuff is relevant, could close issue. Given we've moved away from did auth, seems we're on track to say that

So do we feel chapi & did auth, we should be commenting on them in interop? Or other direction talking abt non-interactive cred exchange
[2023-09-05T18:15:23.893Z]	<nis>	ack nis
[2023-09-05T18:15:40.624Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: comments? thoughts on direction?
[2023-09-05T18:16:08.899Z]	<Arun>	Coran and I were trying to unmute and speak. We were not able to. I’ll go ahead and ask those questions here.
[2023-09-05T18:16:19.881Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ben: sentence, trace api focused on non-interaction? kind of worried abt intermingling standards, adding dependencies in other places
[2023-09-05T18:16:56.190Z]	<nis>	Yes, please Arun...
[2023-09-05T18:17:11.800Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: problem is chapi experience is better than it is now. feels wrong to say "we don't like it but don't have better" fine to say "this is best but we don't like it". Have watched chapi, openid has not created better experience.
[2023-09-05T18:17:42.147Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: other thoughts on 588?

Apparently Arun unable to unmute
[2023-09-05T18:17:57.915Z]	<Arun>	Are there reference implementations of the spec or is it expected that each organisation implement their own following the spec? I’ll have more questions based on this answer. My apologies in advance of this is not the right forum for my questions. I see that the chat here is focused on the standards than implementation itself.
[2023-09-05T18:18:03.406Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: try on chrome? or firefox, in case using safari
[2023-09-05T18:20:03.294Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: yes right place for this. no ref implementation, but are you aware of our test suite? there are postman collections you can download run against your implementation, should make it clear

And there's spec itself, with openapi spec itself. But not ref implementation as such.

Anyone else elaborations on what I just answered?

Ok, let's take 1 more issue wait for Arun to followup
[2023-09-05T18:20:18.576Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/transmute-industries/api.did.actor
[2023-09-05T18:21:15.515Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/tree/main/packages/traceability-tests
[2023-09-05T18:21:18.173Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: looking for ref implementations for spec. at least open source api.did.actor project used in beginning, but drifted far out of date at this pt.

That has some of the structure and there is software in both repos covers test implemntation. If you look at test repos should see at least some sample implementation for the basics. Will link.
[2023-09-05T18:21:27.466Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/tree/main/tests
[2023-09-05T18:21:34.946Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/528
[2023-09-05T18:21:36.843Z]	<Arun>	present+
[2023-09-05T18:22:12.790Z]	<Arun>	present+
[2023-09-05T18:23:12.970Z]	<nis>	ack Arun
[2023-09-05T18:23:27.819Z]	<Arun>	I joined from the browser
[2023-09-05T18:23:31.531Z]	<Arun>	ok
[2023-09-05T18:24:29.765Z]	<Coran>	present+
[2023-09-05T18:24:38.663Z]	<TallTed>	Arun, Coran -- depending on your OS, you might also need to grant your browser access to your mic and/or camera
[2023-09-05T18:24:53.527Z]	<Arun_-_Safari>	present+
[2023-09-05T18:24:55.548Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/529
[2023-09-05T18:26:08.707Z]	<Arun>	I did grant permissions, apparently none of this works
[2023-09-05T18:26:43.310Z]	<Orie>	Sorry about Jitsi, its what we have to use.
[2023-09-05T18:26:48.009Z]	<Coran>	present+
[2023-09-05T18:26:52.876Z]	<Arun>	With respect to with
[2023-09-05T18:27:32.682Z]	<Arun>	That will help
[2023-09-05T18:27:38.494Z]	<nis>	nis@transmute.industries
[2023-09-05T18:27:52.673Z]	<Arun>	Thank you
[2023-09-05T18:28:10.213Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: doing one more issue.

528, Improvements to the abstract, mahmoud

I think I might have closed a few of these, let's look if more

We do have some issues still.

Leaving that for mahmoud

Arun, able to unmute? No

One more issue, 529, New Section: Relationship to VC-API

What is our rel to vc-api these days?

This will require more attn from Mahmoud before we can validate this. Next is 503, last one

Arun, shoot me an email, I can help get up to speed with this work

Wrapping it up. Volunteer for minutes?
[2023-09-05T18:28:14.695Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Russell: Yeah sure
[2023-09-05T18:28:20.839Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Nis: thanks all
