[2021-12-06T15:32:20.196Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-12-06T15:46:55.519Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	chair: Kerri_Lemoie
[2021-12-06T15:46:55.519Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2021Dec/0002.html
[2021-12-06T16:00:01.793Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:00:31.854Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:00:56.601Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:01:16.561Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:01:19.866Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:01:43.488Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:02:06.372Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:02:17.906Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:02:24.222Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:03:19.394Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:03:41.514Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:04:00.656Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-12-06T16:04:11.781Z]	<Jim_Kelly>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:04:12.766Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2021-12-06T16:04:34.580Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-12-06T16:04:39.272Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-12-06T16:04:41.830Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:04:51.027Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:05:25.200Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:05:27.375Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:05:31.355Z]	<Adrian>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:05:43.635Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Can you hear me?
[2021-12-06T16:05:45.668Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Anyone speaking yet ?
[2021-12-06T16:05:57.227Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	I think I'm having some mic issues.
[2021-12-06T16:06:34.917Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:06:51.021Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:06:57.094Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:06:59.192Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	we seem to have "lost" Kerri
[2021-12-06T16:07:07.364Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	can anyone hear me
[2021-12-06T16:07:08.637Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	(her connection at least, according to Jitsi)
[2021-12-06T16:07:12.474Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:07:19.199Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	no one hears ya, and your icon shows muted
[2021-12-06T16:07:23.370Z]	<John_Kuo>	Kerri, it looks like you are still muted
[2021-12-06T16:07:26.271Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	maybe reload from a new browser? ðŸ˜¬
[2021-12-06T16:07:35.256Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:08:11.001Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Sorry all
[2021-12-06T16:08:21.220Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	working on it
[2021-12-06T16:09:13.636Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Can someone else unmute and say something?
[2021-12-06T16:09:25.020Z]	<John_Kuo>	People are talking...
[2021-12-06T16:09:28.551Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Ohh
[2021-12-06T16:09:46.000Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:10:03.870Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Trying a new browser
[2021-12-06T16:10:33.312Z]	<Kerri>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:10:35.821Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:10:47.169Z]	<Kerri>	I can hear you all now.
[2021-12-06T16:10:47.473Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:11:06.280Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:11:07.194Z]	<Jessica_Ch'ng>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:11:28.745Z]	<Kerri>	Hello all -
[2021-12-06T16:11:06.281Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: IP Note
[2021-12-06T16:12:50.520Z]	<Kerri>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-12-06T16:12:59.490Z]	<Kerri>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2021-12-06T16:13:10.865Z]	<Kerri>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2021-12-06T16:13:23.838Z]	<Kerri>	archive: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-12-06T16:11:06.281Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Meeting minutes & recording
[2021-12-06T16:13:34.075Z]	<Kerri>	q+
[2021-12-06T16:13:38.555Z]	<Kerri>	q-
[2021-12-06T16:13:38.556Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Scribe selection
[2021-12-06T16:14:27.225Z]	<Kerri>	scribe: Marty_Reed
[2021-12-06T16:14:28.226Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:14:28.226Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-12-06T16:14:44.488Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: Introductions and reintros
[2021-12-06T16:14:56.487Z]	<juancaballero>	mazel tov!
[2021-12-06T16:15:03.984Z]	<Marty_Reed>	Timothy Summers - new intro
[2021-12-06T16:15:28.420Z]	<Marty_Reed>	Jessica Chung - new fellow at DOE
[2021-12-06T16:15:37.398Z]	<Marty_Reed>	Ch'ng
[2021-12-06T16:15:47.284Z]	<Marty_Reed>	Jim Kelly - returning
[2021-12-06T16:15:56.951Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JK- California community colleges
[2021-12-06T16:15:56.952Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Announcements
[2021-12-06T16:16:19.401Z]	<Kerri>	mailing list: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/
[2021-12-06T16:16:39.186Z]	<Marty_Reed>	CCG call tomorrow on VC-EDU
[2021-12-06T16:17:02.881Z]	<Kerri>	CCG Meeting:  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Nov/0101.html
[2021-12-06T16:17:07.625Z]	<Marty_Reed>	Timothy can you put your affiliation in the chat?
[2021-12-06T16:17:22.426Z]	<Marty_Reed>	Next week, last meeting, Jan.3 next meeting
[2021-12-06T16:17:22.427Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Co-chair Election Results
[2021-12-06T16:17:33.388Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: voting result
[2021-12-06T16:17:57.497Z]	<Marty_Reed>	Dmitri and Simone are the new co-chairs
[2021-12-06T16:17:58.977Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	congrats!
[2021-12-06T16:17:59.968Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	Congrats!
[2021-12-06T16:18:00.672Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	Timothy Summers, Executive Director Product Manager - Digital Trust, Founder/Lead Pocket, Arizona State University
[2021-12-06T16:18:01.444Z]	<John_Kuo>	Timothy Summers: director of the Pocket initiative at ASU
[2021-12-06T16:18:03.962Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	ðŸŽ‰
[2021-12-06T16:18:05.381Z]	<John_Kuo>	Congrats!
[2021-12-06T16:18:10.653Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:18:11.168Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	Congrats!
[2021-12-06T16:18:16.355Z]	<Kerri>	https://www.opavote.com/results/5292654993604608
[2021-12-06T16:18:19.937Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	ðŸ¥°
[2021-12-06T16:18:23.585Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	:blush:
[2021-12-06T16:18:32.388Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Contgrats Dmitri and Simone!
[2021-12-06T16:18:33.161Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Woot woot!!
[2021-12-06T16:18:33.162Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Phil Long - Single Assertion Endorsements
[2021-12-06T16:18:46.558Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: discussion on single assertion endorsements
[2021-12-06T16:19:10.262Z]	<Kerri>	q?
[2021-12-06T16:21:06.307Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Link to my slides:
[2021-12-06T16:21:07.133Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1oAkF2DC_zvXvAQwITeD04V2JeSAsF8mrh1fJhAwDsws/edit?usp=sharing
[2021-12-06T16:21:28.553Z]	<Nate_Otto_(Badgr/CSky)>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:22:25.658Z]	<Kerri>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:23:13.729Z]	<Kerri>	Thank you to who is sharing
[2021-12-06T16:23:20.070Z]	<Marty_Reed>	It's me
[2021-12-06T16:23:44.085Z]	<Jim_Kelly>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:24:06.839Z]	<Kerri>	Is my screen visible?
[2021-12-06T16:24:11.093Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: starting with design principles
[2021-12-06T16:24:35.822Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: most physical identity transactions are transient
[2021-12-06T16:24:52.252Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: physical interactions degrade over time
[2021-12-06T16:25:06.364Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: endorsements are technical and transient
[2021-12-06T16:25:37.636Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: Endorsements must be accepted by the holder/endorsee
unsolicited or dox endorsements have no place in this ecosystem
[2021-12-06T16:25:51.921Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:25:55.857Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: Endorser presents bona fides in their endorsement -  legitimacy as a credible reference

TTL (time to live) endorsement duration?

Evidence gathered by endorser presented showcasing endorseeâ€™s capabilities/skills/competency relevant to the verifier

Unambigous and tamper evident linkage between endorsement its target
[2021-12-06T16:26:08.114Z]	<Kerri>	Are my slides in your screens?
[2021-12-06T16:26:14.848Z]	<Marty_Reed>	yes
[2021-12-06T16:26:16.447Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:26:18.055Z]	<David_Chadwick>	I have a black screen and no slides
[2021-12-06T16:26:18.431Z]	<Kerri>	Thanks
[2021-12-06T16:27:01.621Z]	<Kerri>	Sorry for technical issues. Can follow along here if you can't see my screen: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1oAkF2DC_zvXvAQwITeD04V2JeSAsF8mrh1fJhAwDsws/edit?usp=sharing
[2021-12-06T16:27:51.711Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: other feedback on design principles?
[2021-12-06T16:27:52.712Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	goodn
[2021-12-06T16:27:58.754Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	good list
[2021-12-06T16:28:11.002Z]	<Adrian>	The MITRE slide is actually credit to Chris Buchnan as reused by me.
[2021-12-06T16:28:11.885Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	:+1:
[2021-12-06T16:28:12.876Z]	<Kerri>	q?
[2021-12-06T16:28:48.746Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: funding exists for single assertion credentials for endorsement
[2021-12-06T16:29:07.241Z]	<Adrian>	with permission by Chris.
[2021-12-06T16:29:10.219Z]	<Marty_Reed>	Single assertion credentials for endorsements - 
Rationale: Personal, independent confirmation of assertions about achievements, skills and abilities adds credibility. When it is extended by someone who has a known reputation or in a position which implies they should be able make judgments about the achievement(s) asserted they gain value. Knowing that they are offered by someone, and for a specific digital identifier furthers trust in the assertion. The goal is digitally model professional endorsements adding a layer of provable connections in a decentralized world.
Possible Technical Options:
Follow current badge endorsement model
Continuation of Badge Endorsement: contained w/in LER single assertion credential data model 
Two distinct VCs by a DID linking VC 
Separate Endorsement LER1: Combines multiple independent credentials together
Hashed VC(s) reference with independent storage
Endorsement and credential stored and referenced independently through hashlinks
[2021-12-06T16:30:25.256Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	On design principles: Make it super easy to "endorse", like a FB thumbs up.  balance tech implementation with UX.
[2021-12-06T16:30:47.188Z]	<Kerri>	Endorsement spec info: https://www.imsglobal.org/sites/default/files/Badges/OBv2p0Final/index.html#Endorsement
[2021-12-06T16:30:50.179Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	q+
[2021-12-06T16:30:52.705Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: technical options - v2.2x OB example carries forward into OB v3 context
[2021-12-06T16:31:03.313Z]	<Kerri>	q?
[2021-12-06T16:31:24.564Z]	<Kerri>	ack Kayode_Ezike
[2021-12-06T16:31:56.008Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KE: the idea of endorsements including LinkedIn endorsements, Q: how do you think about verification
[2021-12-06T16:32:50.178Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: how does one think about it from issued credentials versus self-issued credentials
[2021-12-06T16:33:05.266Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: secondarily the process/mechanism of verification
[2021-12-06T16:33:37.341Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: the verification here is aligned to the VC data model
[2021-12-06T16:33:38.774Z]	<Kerri>	q?
[2021-12-06T16:33:45.317Z]	<Adrian>	q+
[2021-12-06T16:34:26.714Z]	<Kerri>	ack Adrien
[2021-12-06T16:34:35.911Z]	<Kerri>	ack Adrian
[2021-12-06T16:34:48.839Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AG: 2 kinds of endorsements, related to identity and related to validity
[2021-12-06T16:35:18.022Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AG: real world identity is verified by notaries, is this necessary in the education space?
[2021-12-06T16:35:34.265Z]	<John_Kuo>	I think you can do in in a single issued credential
[2021-12-06T16:35:40.377Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: started from the foundation the person is accruing these credentials over a lifetime
[2021-12-06T16:36:16.089Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: each credential should be inclusive of both identity and validity, but open to other methods
[2021-12-06T16:36:56.395Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AG: cost related to identity is often 0, cost related to a credential is significant.
[2021-12-06T16:37:09.492Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: make the creation of DIDs an easier process
[2021-12-06T16:37:37.999Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: this would better align with the current world of, for example, notaries at public libraries
[2021-12-06T16:37:40.798Z]	<Kerri>	q?
[2021-12-06T16:37:51.230Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: DID linking approach
[2021-12-06T16:38:30.064Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:38:37.011Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: example of the use of multiple signatures
[2021-12-06T16:39:08.446Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: various signature methods allow for more than one signature and maintain integrity
[2021-12-06T16:39:23.123Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: what does it mean that 2 people find the VC
[2021-12-06T16:39:26.216Z]	<juancaballero>	Markus Sabadello even did a presentation (maybe at a DIF meeting?) about multi-proof'd payloads
[2021-12-06T16:39:28.423Z]	<Kerri>	Proposal: Anchored Resources and Hashlinks for VCs https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/831
[2021-12-06T16:39:37.187Z]	<Kerri>	q?
[2021-12-06T16:39:54.147Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: what does it mean when an institution signs and then another party signs the VC, what is implied?
[2021-12-06T16:40:05.837Z]	<juancaballero>	...and mentioned the aforementioned semantic black hole Dmitry is describing :D
[2021-12-06T16:40:17.432Z]	<Kerri>	@juancaballero: do you have a link?
[2021-12-06T16:40:34.900Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Does proofPurpose in VC data model not resolve that ambiguity?
[2021-12-06T16:40:37.797Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: downside is that proof methods are various
[2021-12-06T16:40:52.568Z]	<juancaballero>	https://identity.foundation/faq/#can-a-vc-be-signed-by-two-or-more-parties-how-do-i-produce-and-consume-multi-signed-vcs-%EF%B8%8F
[2021-12-06T16:40:56.964Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: they don't typically have the purpose of the signature at the top level
[2021-12-06T16:41:06.934Z]	<Kerri>	Thanks! @juancaballero
[2021-12-06T16:41:11.732Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Gotcha ðŸ‘ðŸ¾
[2021-12-06T16:41:18.489Z]	<Adrian>	q+
[2021-12-06T16:41:35.556Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: purpose is not always explicit
[2021-12-06T16:41:49.704Z]	<Kerri>	q?
[2021-12-06T16:41:50.460Z]	<juancaballero>	https://github.com/decentralized-identity/interoperability/blob/master/agenda2021.md#agenda---3-feb-2021---useu-time-0600-pt---update-on-did-core-and-enterprise-ethereum-alliance-d-burnett-and-did-interop-fundamentals-markus-sabadello-and-guests
[2021-12-06T16:41:56.565Z]	<juancaballero>	(oops broken link)
[2021-12-06T16:42:14.773Z]	<Kerri>	ack Adrian
[2021-12-06T16:43:00.916Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AG: issue of liability of the intent of the signature, endorser is expected to keep a log of their endorsements, how far do we want to go down the rabbit hole of current world of required logs
[2021-12-06T16:43:04.434Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2021-12-06T16:43:56.470Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: questioning what ways can liability be limited, but don't have legal interpretation currently
[2021-12-06T16:43:59.947Z]	<Kerri>	ack Dmitri_Zagidulin
[2021-12-06T16:44:41.630Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: engineering perspective: do we know enough about the use case around an issuer or signature log
[2021-12-06T16:45:03.887Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: wallet project in DCC is currently struggling with this question
[2021-12-06T16:45:37.025Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: I haven't seen any standardizations at this point
[2021-12-06T16:45:59.037Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: also relevent to Manu's proposal to status list
[2021-12-06T16:46:20.416Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q?
[2021-12-06T16:46:40.107Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-status-list-2021/
[2021-12-06T16:46:56.385Z]	<juancaballero>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-status-list-2021/issues/2
[2021-12-06T16:46:56.509Z]	<juancaballero>	^ Specific issue
[2021-12-06T16:47:00.271Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: status list is just another way of linking
[2021-12-06T16:47:00.949Z]	<juancaballero>	about new types/enums
[2021-12-06T16:47:48.166Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: #2 is symantic free
[2021-12-06T16:48:28.460Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: referencing Manu Sporny hash link model
[2021-12-06T16:48:32.808Z]	<Kerri>	q?
[2021-12-06T16:49:01.895Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:49:42.002Z]	<Kerri>	Marty_Reed: using smart contracts & hashed storage
[2021-12-06T16:49:58.271Z]	<Kerri>	MR: create VCs as hashed storage and reconnect them on the user side.
[2021-12-06T16:50:12.100Z]	<Kerri>	MR: destination address is the contract
[2021-12-06T16:50:39.261Z]	<Kerri>	MR: example of destination is IPFS.; References chain
[2021-12-06T16:51:32.342Z]	<Kerri>	Phil: create a single issue vc that describes where the endorser is giving background & evidence of their endorsement claim and then put it in IPFS which the wallet holder can point to.
[2021-12-06T16:52:12.763Z]	<Kerri>	MR: allows them to store the endorsement, license, state & transcript - then package the three independently signed objects into a single signed one.
[2021-12-06T16:53:13.387Z]	<Kerri>	MR:beauty of using the hash model, if the hash is changed, then the VC is broken: multilayer protection.
[2021-12-06T16:53:18.172Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	very helpful explanation, thank you
[2021-12-06T16:53:41.850Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	I also have a proposal to the VC WG similar to this: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/831
[2021-12-06T16:53:49.781Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: John Kuo with pocket has an endorsement issuance flow
[2021-12-06T16:54:09.664Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JK: advantage of having a closed system
[2021-12-06T16:54:27.638Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JK: self-issued credential and portfolio credential
[2021-12-06T16:54:59.639Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JK: there is a request for an endorsement for a specific identity
[2021-12-06T16:54:59.691Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-12-06T16:55:18.834Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JK: the request can also be a standalone endorsement
[2021-12-06T16:56:03.498Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JK: self-issued credentail - recieve request, interpret request, credential endorser signs and issues from their identity
[2021-12-06T16:56:26.580Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: analogous to a professional org
[2021-12-06T16:56:44.250Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JK: single asset example
[2021-12-06T16:57:02.250Z]	<Kerri>	q?
[2021-12-06T16:57:09.165Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2021-12-06T16:57:11.423Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JK: each endorsement credential is signed by a single entity
[2021-12-06T16:57:32.334Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: lots more questions than answered in this discussion
[2021-12-06T16:57:32.992Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	would portfolio use case be similar to endorsing a verified presentation?
[2021-12-06T16:57:37.894Z]	<Kerri>	q?
[2021-12-06T16:58:00.940Z]	<Marty_Reed>	PL: focusing on design principles for clarity
[2021-12-06T16:58:04.705Z]	<Kerri>	ack Dmitri_Zagidulin
[2021-12-06T16:58:28.509Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	*831
[2021-12-06T16:58:31.115Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/831
[2021-12-06T16:58:42.069Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	For contacting me, phil@rhzconsulting.com re: endorsement credentials
[2021-12-06T16:58:43.065Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: use of content hash as an alternative
[2021-12-06T16:59:26.592Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JK: pocket intented implementation is hash and UUID
[2021-12-06T16:59:41.656Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	thank you
[2021-12-06T16:59:47.633Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JK: answer to DE, yes
[2021-12-06T16:59:52.890Z]	<juancaballero>	or to put it another way, a portfolio could be expressed as a VP :D
[2021-12-06T17:00:01.529Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Cheers
[2021-12-06T17:00:39.113Z]	<Kerri>	present+
