Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-01-10-vcapi/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-01-10-vcapi/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC API Task Force Transcript for 2023-01-10

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2023Jan/0020.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions, Relevant Community Updates
  2. MATTR Launchpad
  3. Pull Request Review
  4. Publication via VCWG on hold
  5. Reference error schema on errors?
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Greg Bernstein, Manu Sporny, Eric Schuh, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Joe 
  Andrieu, Alan Karp, Patrick (IDLab), Dmitri Zagidulin, TallTed // 
  Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Dave Longley, Paul 
  Dietrich GS1, Pete, Kayode Ezike, Ted Thibodeau, Michael Herman

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Manu Sporny:  Success all right welcome everyone to the 
  verifiable credentials API work item called This is the first 
  call of the Year our agenda is here this is our chance this is 
  our agenda.
Manu Sporny:  On the agenda today we have just a quick discussion 
  update on BC the verifiable credentials working group and getting 
  the VC API through there we should look at some PRS I forgot to 
  put that on the agenda but we've got a couple of PR's that we 
  need to process so please don't let me forget to do that.
Manu Sporny:   At the top of the call.
Manu Sporny:  And we will have a discussion around Nate Autos PR 
  reference error schemas or errors and then a discussion about all 
  Z authorization in the exchanges and point and then talk about 
  other issues and things as time permits are there any other 
  updates or changes to the agenda before we get started anything 
  else people want to talk about.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Patrick.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah just said if we have time there it's come 
  to my attention a solution from matter it was called the launch 
  pad from matter labs and add a bit of a look and I'm curious if 
  we could see how this would fit into the VC API that we are 
  discussing here.
Manu Sporny:  Yep sounds good let's put that at the front of the 
  agenda if you don't think that's going to take a while to do Eric 
  you're on the queue.
<mahmoud> would anyone not speaking be able to mute please
Eric Schuh:  Yeah just wanted to give a quick update on it's a 
  document since I was out last week there should be the pr getting 
  updates in the next hour or two and I plan on pushing it over to 
  Joe for final approval kind of as we discussed just wanted to 
  give another shout-out to tall Ted for all of his comments and 
  suggestions so thanks for that that PR should go through 
  hopefully end of day unless there's something weird that happens.
Manu Sporny:  Excellent great so that was an update on the use 
  cases right great thank you very much for that work is it worth 
  taking a look at anything on the call today Eric do you feel or.
Eric Schuh:  Unfortunately not I mean I'm working on it right now 
  so.

Topic: Introductions, Relevant Community Updates

Manu Sporny:  Gotcha okay okay all right that sounds good thank 
  you again for the update and thank you Ted for your tireless work 
  on making sure we convey the things we want to convey all right 
  let's let's pick up your item well okay let's let's do quick 
  intros relevant Community updates I think do we have anyone new 
  here I think we all know each.
Manu Sporny:   Other fairly well at this point.
Manu Sporny:  Um Alan do you want to give a quick intro to 
  yourself I think most of us know you there might be something.
Alan Karp:  I'm Allen carp I'm the capabilities guy I've been 
  lurking on this list for a while and my mission is to keep you 
  guys from making new be capability mistakes that I myself made 
  when I was a newbie.
Manu Sporny:  Awesome thank you and that's always appreciated 
  Alan Pete do you want to introduce yourself you don't have to but 
  we'd love to hear a bit about your background if you're if you 
  want to share.
Manu Sporny:  If you're searching for the mute button it's not 
  the bottom left of the bar but maybe maybe not.
Manu Sporny:  Okay any relevant Community updates or things of 
  that nature the I have just one quick one around status list 2021 
  that's been moved to the VC working group it's arguable that 
  there is a part of status list 2021 that is pseudo dependent on 
  the VC API we certainly have it in our diagrams that a.
Manu Sporny:   List service would exist.
Manu Sporny:  And it is unknown what that overlap is but 
  basically anything that the spec the status list 2021 spec will 
  say is kind of sort of out of our control except oh good chunk of 
  us are in that group so anyway just a heads up that that's moved 
  to the official working group and is a standards track work item 
  at this point Patrick you're up.
Patrick_(IDLab): Oh yeah just wanted to give a few updates about 
  what's going on here and Canada so the idea lab is officially 
  helping the province of Quebec for their digital ID program since 
  just before the holidays parallel to that Newfoundland announced 
  last week they were starting the POC for the digital ID program 
  as well so I think we'll see a lot of things happening there the 
  other thing the Aries agent testified.
Patrick_(IDLab):  harness maintainers are looking into.
Patrick_(IDLab): In the VC API test Suites and to their flow 
  somewhere so at the moment is just an observation of how that 
  would be possible and that's it for me thank you.
Manu Sporny:  Wonderful thank you Patrick I appreciate that and 
  exciting news did you know what kind of Technologies Quebec in 
  Newfoundland are have have picked or is that still up in the air 
  or.
Patrick_(IDLab): So at the moment it Quebec Ontario and BC are 
  sort of caliber collaborating on a pan-canadian blockchain 
  initiative working with Hyper Ledger in the so this is a very 
  much an action mostly led by b.c. the other provinces are 
  learning the technology for Newfoundland there was not much 
  information but I'm not.
Patrick_(IDLab):  assuming they will join.
Patrick_(IDLab): Network once it's a bit more mature.
Manu Sporny:  Great thank you for that Patrick and certainly 
  please keep us up-to-date if you find out anything new that's 
  interesting interesting developments okay any other announcements 
  or introductions before we get into topics.

Topic: MATTR Launchpad

Manu Sporny:  Patrick let's start with yours so this is the 
  matter Launchpad I think.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah yeah so I just discovered this solution 
  today someone showed it to me and I thought they was a cool maybe 
  you can tell me more about it I'm assuming you're familiar with 
  this platform.
Manu Sporny:  Sorry I was muted I've seen it in a demo here and 
  there but I'm not familiar with it so do you have a link in.
https://launchpad.mattrlabs.com/
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah I can share the link basically they offered 
  three examples of credentials that you can issue to be proof of 
  concept once you go through the step you get to a certain point 
  so you can pretend to be a specific user and then it generates 
  you a QR code and this QR code is did web URL.
Patrick_(IDLab): And it says open and wallet so I was just 
  curious like.
Patrick_(IDLab): How could the VC API be leveraged to ingest this 
  information if possible or if I'm misunderstanding the principal 
  here.
Manu Sporny:  Yes we have seen this so in the jobs for the future 
  plugfest number two its this launch pad that the open ID connect 
  folks used to do the interactions so this is very much as far as 
  I understand it focused on open ID connect and those mechanisms 
  the but again I might be totally wrong on this it.
Manu Sporny:   Was kind of.
Manu Sporny: https://playground.chapi.io/issuer
Manu Sporny:  Created as an oid C version of the chappie issuer 
  playground which uses VC API in chappie so it's got two protocols 
  that it uses today to move credentials from an issuing platform 
  to a wallet it uses just straight chappie and then chappie to 
  provide a VC API endpoint which then you do a VC API exchange and 
  Kyle.
Patrick_(IDLab): You said that a coyote or what's the duct.
Manu Sporny:  All version of that in the jobs for the future 
  plugfest to so I think it's I think it's similar in nature to 
  that let me let me see if I can share so this here he's here 
  coyote are you.
Manu Sporny:   Yeah they are.
Kayode Ezike:  Yep yeah you referring to the exchanges work for 
  right yes so basically that's exactly right use the The Leverage 
  The chappie Playground that model showing right now to know to 
  engage in in the exchanges workflow from a native wallet and I'm 
  happy to answer any questions related to that.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah so it's as far as I think Patrick I understand 
  it these two sites effectively do the same thing the matter 
  launch pad does it for open ID for VCI in the chappie playground 
  does it for VC API in chappie to protocols go ahead Dave.
Dave Longley:  Yeah just have a quick question because Patrick 
  you said that the QR code has a did web URL in it I would have 
  expected it to be an open ID initiate issuance URL so that when I 
  QR code comes up if you use a wallet that supports open ID 
  connect verifiable credential issuance it could scan that QR code 
  and get that oid C4 VCI URL.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It is it is a initiate issue it's got ya.
Dave Longley:  Okay yeah so this playground is just doing 
  delivery of the credential or you know this launch pad is doing 
  delivery of the crown jewel through oid C4 B CI instead of 
  through the VC API you can build a similar site that used to be 
  Capi in the background the do all the exchange all of the 
  issuance and verification stuff but the VC API does delivery 
  either directly through choppy or.
Dave Longley:   Through exchanges URLs and.
Dave Longley:  Oid C4 B CI QR code is an alternative to that 
  mechanism you could you know put a exchanges URL in a QR code to 
  do it through BC API but effectively what's going on is a 
  different protocols being spoken to do the delivery.
Patrick_(IDLab): Interesting I will definitely spend more time 
  experimenting with it it's very interesting and it's just a side 
  note I totally forgot to the committee of data we had a 
  consultation with company called volte and they want to develop 
  test Suites for oid see.
Patrick_(IDLab):  for verify.
https://vaultie.io/
Patrick_(IDLab): So I don't know if it's a organization that 
  you've heard of before.
Manu Sporny:  I have not heard of them but that's interesting 
  actually no V yeah I've heard of them forget where but I've heard 
  about these folks.
Patrick_(IDLab): I don't know much about how far off they are but 
  it was something they're interested in it.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah they haven't I don't think they've 
  participated in any of the plugfest stood eight but does anyone 
  know as anyone interacted with them.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so don't know yeah I mean yeah I think that 
  would be a would be a very useful thing to have in the ecosystem 
  now is just I mean just more test Suite stood for 
  interoperability so we people can test it still you know a little 
  too hard to demonstrate inner up these days and I think we're 
  actively working on this across the multiple protocols okay so 
  I'll stop screen sharing their in Patrick did that.
Manu Sporny:   Over the yeah that covered the launch.
Manu Sporny:  You want to.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah I took some notes and I'll play around when 
  I have some down time at work.
Manu Sporny:  Okay alright let's sounds good the next thing up we 
  should probably do is pull request review we have one of these 
  pull requests.

Topic: Pull Request Review

Manu Sporny:  Her so I'll skip that one but.
Manu Sporny:  Other ones we should take a look at let me share my 
  screen.
Manu Sporny:  So just real quick we had to pull request that had 
  been out there for a while so Andrew Jones has put quite a number 
  of just bug fix things into the the into the spec these are 
  issues that he found while implementing.
Manu Sporny:  Implementing the VC API the test Suites for the 
  some of the VC API things and so like this you know the continue 
  here using post and not put in updating some of the examples so 
  last four days these are the three that we ended up pulling in 
  they were out there for a while so just a heads up the folks that 
  we pull these in take a look at them I don't think that they work 
  on.
Manu Sporny:  You know things like adding a description to the 
  like you know adding descriptions to some of the like the error 
  response right this was leading to some some bad renderings okay 
  next item up is.
Manu Sporny:  This one we're going to talk about here in a bit 
  preparing the document for publication as of ECW G item this one 
  I think is still a work in progress adding 44 as a response for 
  getting delete to make it aligned with VPS I think Andrew 
  currently has this as a draft so it's been approved but we're not 
  he needs to I guess we need to Ping.
Manu Sporny:   Him to make it.
Manu Sporny:  PR so that we can pull it in.
Manu Sporny:  323 Ads verifiable presentation request to exchange 
  initiate I believe this is an error I think Longley you looked at 
  this and I looked at this and I think the error that's being made 
  here is that he's adding a top-level verifiable presentation 
  request which will make it double nested in the rest of the specs 
  so we need to this PR probably just needs to be rejected.
Manu Sporny:   Unless he.
Manu Sporny:  Has a reason he's doing that I'll have to see.
Manu Sporny:  Was that the wrong place.
Dave Longley:  Part of the pr was required we wanted to add that 
  property somewhere and I think the problem was that it linked to 
  a it made the schema for a verifiable presentation request have 
  the property within it so we still needed the property somewhere 
  so there's there's some slight problem with how the our 
  particular problem was being addressed I think is what's going 
  on.
Manu Sporny:  Okay alright so we need to fix that anyway there's 
  a block on that one to pull it in until that's fixed.
Manu Sporny:  326 We'll talk about later today.
Manu Sporny:  327 So Joe Eric just a heads up to both of you I 
  just redid the diagram that was there and updated it to 
  coordinator and their Google drawings that people can copy and 
  modify and I'm not claiming that it's good I tried to keep the 
  exact same kind of layout I changed this symbol symbology here a 
  little bit.
Manu Sporny:   Because Google draw was doing weird things.
Manu Sporny:  Padding that made it look ugly added the disc thing 
  for storage service tried to modify the language here a bit but 
  again I'm totally not wed to any of this I just was trying to get 
  it into a format that all of us could add it so there's a PRN for 
  that with it.
Joe Andrieu:  Great let's get I hadn't realized we can look at it 
  in the way that you're sharing right now so when I went to go 
  look at them I guess I got to download the repo and whatnot but 
  this looks great so far I will put an eyeball on it to look at 
  the nuances you just mentioned.
Manu Sporny:  Awesome thanks yeah and feel free to just suggest 
  changes or just clone the Google Doc or I can just give you 
  access to it and you can modify it as you see fit there's a 
  readme in the directory that links to it says for this SVG go to 
  this Google doc so that's the only way I could think of conveying 
  that easily the repo everything else Remains the Same as far as I 
  can tell okay so there's that.
Manu Sporny:  There are two other PRS that I put in here we have 
  been operating for quite a while without a introductory section 
  in the spec and so now there is this chunk of text that was added 
  as an introduction Ted has already suggested changes that I think 
  are excellent so we'll need to rework the language a bit I got I 
  got trapped in the internal versus external date.
Manu Sporny:   API delineation public.
Manu Sporny:  And that's just language wanted to not use in Ted 
  came up with better language so I'm going to try and apply that 
  so we have an introductory section.
Manu Sporny:  Or not please take a look at it and improve it if 
  you feel there's a better way to approach it the other one is 
  just a design goals and rationale PR and again I'm just trying 
  this was completely blank I tried to put in a couple of goals 
  like modularity Simplicity composability extensibility and 
  explain why you know these are goals for the API so.
Manu Sporny:   That text exists now.
Manu Sporny:  Fairly generic it does apply it's just not it's not 
  a hand wave but other people might have other goals that they 
  wanted to put in there or you might want to modify the text was 
  trying to keep things kind of short and sweet here and when we 
  talk about design goals and rationale then we go into 
  architecture overview one of the things that is striking me right 
  now looking at this is that we don't refer to the use cases and 
  we totally should so.
Manu Sporny:  You've got your PR in and we can refer to use cases 
  in the introduction in there's also a related documents part here 
  that we can add and link to it up there but we should totally do 
  that okay that's the entirety of kind of the PRS are there any 
  comments concerns about any of that stuff this was raised two 
  days ago we've got you know until next Sunday to effectively.
Manu Sporny:  Wait to pull them in so you have until then to 
  review but at a high level any questions concerns about the.

Topic: Publication via VCWG on hold

Manu Sporny:  All right well there they are okay back to our 
  agenda thanks all for the support and the oh geez okay so the 
  next item up is our publication in the verifiable credentials 
  working group we had mentioned this before the break.
Manu Sporny:  This PR there was a PR that was put together to 
  prepare the VC API for for it to be pulled into the verifiable 
  credentials working group we removed what we felt were maybe the 
  controversial features in the VC API which is the exchanges stuff 
  all the exchanges stuff thinking that people wouldn't find issue 
  you know too much issue with the spec as a note and we'd be able 
  to pull it into the verifiable credentials working group.
Manu Sporny:   It was listed.
Manu Sporny:  A at something in the charter that we could do and 
  we could publish but as folks all on the verifiable credentials 
  working group there are a number of organizations that took 
  exception to it Microsoft especially it's taking exception to the 
  work being pulled into the verifiable credentials working group 
  and because of the w3c transition to a legal entity which by the 
  way we're in January in w3c Incorporated.
Manu Sporny:   Lists people thought it might not transition.
Manu Sporny:  Moved over the staff have gotten offers they're 
  working not out of the woods yet but they'll be three C exists in 
  2023 which you know was a chance that it wasn't going to last 
  year but because of that transition the questions that we had 
  sent to the w3c staff they were dealing with larger fires than 
  whether or not we could publish the be Capi in the verify the 
  credentials working group so that got put on hold and.
Manu Sporny:   In where we are now.
Manu Sporny:  Is kind of in limbo with the VC API there a couple 
  of options forward one of them is to publish it as a note in the 
  verifiable credentials working group that is in Charter we put 
  that in the charter for the verifiable credentials working group 
  because we wanted to publish this the VC API in that group and 
  then pave the way for another.
Manu Sporny:   Pave the way to make it.
Manu Sporny:  Because of the pushback specifically from Microsoft 
  we.
Manu Sporny:  We are product we're second-guessing if that's the 
  best approach for it so all other Alternatives is we could ask 
  for a new working group which would probably be a successful 
  Endeavor because we have implemented we have 17 people that 
  implemented the API and jobs for the future plugfest to like it's 
  the we can demonstrate that there's interest in that people have 
  implemented it and will provide implementation feedback that's 
  not an issue so we could have a separate work.
Manu Sporny:   King group but then it's weird to have the.
Manu Sporny:  Then shows data model group and the verifiable 
  credentials API Group and I'm sure they'd talk with each other 
  but it would probably be much easier to just do it all in one 
  group so we could ask for another working group we could pull it 
  into the VC w g which people have already said they're going to 
  fight that and then it comes down to a process question on 
  whether or not we can do that we could ask for another working 
  group which will take time.
Manu Sporny:   I'm it'll take months to probably Charter a new 
  working group.
Manu Sporny:  Which needs its own set of chairs and its own staff 
  contact and all that kind of stuff or we could decide to hold 
  back and continue to incubate it here while we get a little more 
  clarity while w3c Incorporated gets its feet under it in you know 
  gets back to regular operations while the verify credentials 
  specs make a little more progress.
Manu Sporny:   It's Kind of a.
Manu Sporny:  You know it's an open question this group okay 
  sorry that was a lot of background but that's kind of what's 
  going on now thoughts feelings concerns about next steps does 
  anyone have strong feelings about any one of those options or and 
  or a new Option Patrick you're on the queue.
Patrick_(IDLab): What a question but when you see something like 
  some folks push backs against the VC API like do you need 
  unanimity for something like that to go through or it's bit not 
  so clear or do you need majority as it a vote based issue or.
<kayode_ezike> My question exactly
Manu Sporny:  Excellent question Jose on the cue and I'll put 
  myself.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah I'll come in a little bit on that although 
  it's in Charter ultimately the group decides what it's going to 
  do and anything that happened outside the group of four hand is 
  considered not binding so that the group is free to figure out 
  within its scope of membership what that group decides is 
  appropriate and I guess my medic not my man.
Joe Andrieu:   A comment with a comment I got.
Joe Andrieu:  Was I think it and separate working group probably 
  is going to be easier I think you know be Capi conflicts with 
  some other big organizations goals for how they want to say the 
  ecosystem move forward and I appreciate that they don't want this 
  particular API tainting the VC work because that's how they see 
  it they see other ways to deliver credentials and if we separated 
  into its own working group maybe that'll give us the freedom to 
  sit down and solve the problem away.
Joe Andrieu:   We want to solve it as we've started here.
Manu Sporny:  Yep that's an excellent point and yeah exactly what 
  Joe said it is up to the group it's debatable whether or not a 
  minus one you don't need unanimity to pull work in that's not 
  supposed to be how it works you need you need to be you need to 
  have consensus when you decide to push it forward to.
Manu Sporny:  Recommendation traditionally that's the way it's 
  been but the w3c process is that you can you know you can debate 
  little bits here and there so traditionally you're not supposed 
  to block work that has multiple implementers in a speck in people 
  willing to work on it that's not you know it's it was 
  traditionally viewed as just socially antisocial as you know it 
  too.
Manu Sporny:  Out a good technical reason like this is going to 
  break the internet so but that's you know we that is what we're 
  expecting to happen because the ccwg has become a bit there is a 
  contentious because of some of the larger players that have 
  joined that have strong opinions about how the verifiable 
  credential ecosystem should.
Patrick_(IDLab): When you say like the big players that are isn't 
  that like some form of like lobbying there I say.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah yeah yeah it is but I mean you know we're all 
  their lobbying right I mean you could argue that you know the 
  little company it's a bit different when a large tech company 
  throws their weight around in a working group versus a small tech 
  company which doesn't really have that much weight to throw 
  around right it's also there's been some gaming of process both 
  well behind the scenes and in front of the scenes but that's you 
  know but verify.
Manu Sporny:   I will credentials is.
Manu Sporny:  That doubt that these same companies have been 
  trying to you know slow kill modify take over the work in various 
  ways since the beginning since you know 2014 so you know that's 
  just kind of where that's the that's the environment we're 
  dealing with but it used to be that some of these organizations 
  were outside you know throwing stones into you know the tent and.
Manu Sporny:  I the tent you know throwing stuff around go ahead 
  Jim.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah I didn't realize I was gonna ask you twice 
  there in a modest defense of these large players you know 
  standard making is a mess and I don't like some of the things 
  that's been happening but the verifiable credential standard 
  itself does not depend on the exchange protocols so I can 
  appreciate that hey let's let's keep these boundaries clean 
  they're doing it for strategic reasons because they have some 
  other API that they.
Joe Andrieu:   / But the.
Joe Andrieu:  Work itself I don't think is innately sort of 
  Tainted or messed up by this sorts of shenanigans it does make it 
  hard for us to incorporate an alternative transport mechanism 
  which is sort of what we bumped into so hence my advocacy that 
  may be a separate working group is worth it even though it's a 
  lot of extra effort.
Patrick_(IDLab): Okay because like reading the documentation like 
  one big distinction I'm seeing with the work that's been done we 
  see API it's a lot more of a technical approach as like the VC 
  data model for example is more like just a specification that 
  doesn't really tell people how to do stuff and I see this API 
  maybe is I want to say like tightening the screw a little bit on 
  a how to do stuff so that's like one distinction.
Patrick_(IDLab):  Ian I could see I don't know if that has to 
  play with the.
<michael_herman_(web_7.0)> What is the transport that Mi roso
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I don't know how much it's driving the 
  decisions that is I mean your read on it's right I mean we're 
  trying to actually get to you know moving these credentials 
  around not saying that they just exist so.
Manu Sporny:  Hearing that maybe what we want to do is just prep 
  a new working group Charter for verifiable credential API.
<michael_herman_(web_7.0)> What is the transport that Microsoft 
  prefers?
Manu Sporny:  And and understanding that that's going to take a 
  while and of course you know the current V CW G also has a saying 
  that it's not just you know us that gets to know things there go 
  ahead Dave.
<kayode_ezike> If we end up forming a new working group, might it 
  still cause challenges by creating a schism in the community?
<manu_sporny> Microsoft prefers OpenID4VCI and OpenID4VP
Dave Longley:  Yeah one of the important things for a new working 
  group like that is getting an idea of how many people would be 
  actively joining and participating in those goals how many of the 
  people because if you're a member of the w3c ccg you don't 
  necessarily have to be a w3c member and pay member dues so it 
  would be good to get an idea of how many of the members how many 
  of the ccg members and people who have been participating on 
  these goals would be involved in the working group.
<michael_herman_(web_7.0)> Thk u
Manu Sporny:  Yep exactly coyote do you do you want to vocalize 
  your question I think it's a good one.
Kayode Ezike:  Yeah I mean I think for this one it kind of feels 
  like we did the new working group would be sort of like the 
  little brother or kind of like Black Sheep that's been trying its 
  best to to make a case for itself to be incorporated into the 
  larger we see W to Brooke Group which is I think in many people's 
  eyes the main working group for without credentials I agree that 
  it's it's technically different.
Kayode Ezike:   It's is different things were specifying as far 
  as like scheme.
<paul_dietrich_gs1> Any thoughtful comparisons documents of 
  OpenID4VC(s) and VC-API?
Kayode Ezike:  Um versus protocol but it kind of like because of 
  the fact that most people already there and that's kind of the 
  sensor center of gravity the way I see it I just wonder what kind 
  of challenges it could love the this group so I don't have a 
  clear idea of like what that would look like but it's just 
  something I felt that I should go close.
Manu Sporny:  Yep let's say it's a good it's a good point there 
  is always the risk I mean you know there's always the risk that.
Manu Sporny:  Looking at it from like a process gaming standpoint 
  sometimes you want a piece of work item to kind of be split off 
  from the main thing so that you can kill it or formally object 
  that it should get started or give it a harder time starting up 
  so there is that potential or it can turn out really well because 
  if nobody formally objects to it in the group get started then 
  you have a group of people that are motivated to work on that 
  thing and it's very tightly focused on that thing.
Manu Sporny:   The danger there of course is that.
<tallted> invited experts are a thing...
Manu Sporny:  Will not be able to pull some of the community in 
  for that work because you have to be a w3c member to do it and if 
  only you know a handful of w3c members show up there's a chance 
  that people people that are hostile to the work could join the 
  group and in kind of disrupt it so they're their benefits and 
  drawbacks to the approach and Ted you're right invited experts 
  are thing and so we could invite experts into the.
Manu Sporny:   Group but of course then you know that decision is 
  up to the chairs.
<tallted> all solutions are imperfect. sadly.
Manu Sporny:  If you have good welcoming inclusive chairs that 
  works out well but I've seen groups where the staff was pushed by 
  management to basically say no to in minded experts.
Manu Sporny:  At too many invited experts in the group w3c 
  members that are paying dues get kind of cranky okay I think 
  we've probably talked about this enough I'm not hearing super 
  strong opinions one way or the other other than maybe we should 
  look into separate working group for the item understanding that 
  it could take up to a year to get that started if we started on 
  the charter now.
Manu Sporny:   And it was.
Manu Sporny:  You know in the next six months the soonest it 
  would probably be up for a vote would be October of this year and 
  that's a long time to wait.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Paul.
Paul_Dietrich_GS1: Yamato I know you talked about that as one of 
  the Alternatives I missed were there other Alternatives that were 
  proposed.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah just pull the work it recharged sorry the 
  recharter the so we could do two things with the current working 
  group we could pull the work into the current working group if 
  there's agreement to do it or if process allows us to do that or 
  we could reach harder the current working group and say once 
  we're done with the data model stuff that working groups going to 
  work on the verifiable credential API.
Manu Sporny:  And that might go a little faster because we 
  already have a group set up in re Charters tend to go faster than 
  a totally new group being.
Paul_Dietrich_GS1: I see thank you.
Manu Sporny:  It recharges could take it once we decide to do a 
  recharger it could take three months to five months maybe if we 
  decide to do a working group it could take eight months to a 
  year.
Manu Sporny:  And then if we decide to just pull the work into 
  the existing VC w g it's just the group votes to do that and it 
  happens but then of course the specification won't have any 
  standards it won't be a standard until the group is re-chartered 
  to publish it as a standard.
Manu Sporny:  So those are the options.

Topic: Reference error schema on errors?

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pull/326
Manu Sporny:  All right let's get into some of the technical 
  discussion so next up is reference what we're going to do about 
  errors across the API so Nate Otto did a PR recently 326 that 
  basically.
Manu Sporny:  Raise the question what are we doing for errors so 
  we have our codes that are listed in the specification and we 
  have this error response object but we're kind of like picking 
  and choosing where we use it it's not used everywhere and so the 
  question is when there is an error should we always provide an 
  error response and the error response contains forget it's like 
  an ID.
Manu Sporny:   / Code.
Manu Sporny:  A description in details.
Manu Sporny:  So we can add it to this one call he's got I forget 
  what this call is it's this is the get credentials my ID call 
  will throw an error and explain why.
Manu Sporny:  For a 404 and there's a question of like should we 
  be doing that for a 404 but should all of these other error 
  codes.
Manu Sporny:  Sorry all these other HTTP errors have an error 
  code error response object in the response.
Manu Sporny:  Thoughts questions concerns.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Dave.
Dave Longley:  I'm ambivalent about it I think it's most 
  important to get the status codes right and you know we've been 
  doing that so far it's just a question of whether implementing 
  this one all of the.
Dave Longley:  And to have to be the same for all of these apis 
  becomes more important if there's any particular values that 
  should be sent back to be acted upon along with the error 
  messages as opposed to all of the information being adequately 
  communicated via the status if we do decide to use some common 
  error thing if if we're going to admit our own we need to.
Dave Longley:   Figure that.
Dave Longley:  And if we're going up ideally we wouldn't invent 
  our own and we would turn to some other specification to do it 
  provided that it matches what we're trying to accomplish here and 
  that that other specification is actually used by other people in 
  the in the community.
Manu Sporny:  You mean for error codes.
Dave Longley:  For error codes or even just the error data model 
  I know that there was there's some RFC that maybe Mark Nottingham 
  put together at some point for HTTP errors that we could look at 
  I don't know if anyone uses that.
Dave Longley:  And I do.
Dave Longley:  If it fits our use cases it's I know that it might 
  not quite match up with how errors are returned from some 
  implementations today number of implementations use like the name 
  field for errors because it matches how errors are implemented in 
  for example JavaScript and on the web and that might create a 
  difference that might be problematic for a w3c spec so those are 
  also.
Dave Longley:   The considerations.
Joe Andrieu:  I had a question I don't know if Paul still on the 
  queue.
Manu Sporny:  I don't think so sorry I forgot to ask them.
Joe Andrieu:  My question is is there or what is the framework 
  for extensibility in those responses I think especially in error 
  codes.
Joe Andrieu:  It seems like there may be open-ended things you 
  may want to pass back.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah the current the current error object we have 
  has a code so you know you get the HP code and then in the error 
  response there's like an ID like not found or something like that 
  and then there's a description which is just a textual 
  description that it doesn't have to be what's in the spec it's 
  can be in the native language of you know entity calling.
Manu Sporny:  People and then there's a details object that's 
  arbitrary people can put an arbitrary amount of data in there and 
  I think that's the extensibility model or so so the description 
  field extensible in that you can put anything kind of you want in 
  there as long as it's accurate and then the details object can 
  have an arbitrary data placed into it go ahead Dave.
Dave Longley:  I'm not a huge fan of using the ID field the way 
  that that was described because we use the ID field in all of the 
  other data to describe specific objects and it sounds like the ID 
  field for errors of used in that way would be not an idea of a 
  specific error but more or less the name or type of an error and 
  it seems like we should be using a different field like name or 
  type for that error.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah I agree but when you were talking about 
  extensibility I was expecting that you would say Hey you go take 
  the ID and you can go get more information on that error but if 
  it is the category of the ID then there's no way to get specific 
  information based on it.
Dave Longley:  Let's get mono a second type that up because we 
  talk to way too fast for him.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so I am.
Manu Sporny:  I am forgetting exactly what's in there today well 
  the first question is do we want to always return an error I'm 
  hearing know we can depend on the error code for most of it and 
  only in places where you actually want to add more information to 
  you return an error that's one option the other option is it's up 
  to the implementation to return an error object or not or there 
  may be some error codes.
Manu Sporny:   Where the.
Manu Sporny:  Definitely wants to return an error in specific 
  details and those will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis.
Manu Sporny:  Before we look details.
Dave Longley:  You're Mike got a little muffled Manu but Ted's on 
  the queue.
Manu Sporny:  Sorry go ahead.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Yeah I'm 
  pretty good with mandating sort of minimal requirements but also 
  allowing for larger responses and as a troubleshooter I 
  absolutely want to be able to get the biggest error I can so this 
  might be a configurable thing that might be switchable whether 
  it's by user basis or the admin has to push a button or whatever 
  that's.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com):  that sort of 
  thing.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I think 
  implementation-specific.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): But I 
  definitely want to leave the door open for implementations to 
  provide.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Really 
  sufficient information to troubleshoot whatever it is it's 
  Arirang for whatever reason.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I know we all 
  we only write perfect code but.
<dave_longley> :)
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): He's going to 
  do something someday.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah okay what about are we mandating that an error 
  always be returned on an error when an error codes raised.
Alan Karp: +1 @Tallted
Manu Sporny:  My I'm suggesting let's not do that I think that's 
  too too heavy weight go ahead Longley.
Dave Longley:  I'd say we shouldn't do it until we find that we 
  need to do it and I don't think that anyone here is saying that 
  we know that we need to do it anywhere yet trying to think if 
  they're there probably are.
Dave Longley:  There are cases I know where we should if we're 
  not already be returning error codes for like duplicate issued 
  VCS but again that's like a 409 status code can indicate that so 
  I think we need to find cases where the HTTP status code is 
  insufficient and if it's insufficient then we then we would 
  mandate something but until then we should just say that you can 
  return it if you are going to return an error you can return it.
Dave Longley:  We expect you to return Json of some kind but we 
  don't have to say what it is and it could be 
  implementation-specific as Ted said both for what you return and 
  whether or not it's configurable to return the biggest terrorists 
  as 10 put so I think until we know that we need something more 
  than this we shouldn't mandate that people do something.
Manu Sporny:  What about if I can implementation decide to return 
  an error code where the spec doesn't say to return one.
Dave Longley:  By Eric oh do you mean yeah I certainly think 
  implementation should be allowed to return errors but at this 
  time they should be understood to be implementation-specific so 
  no one using it should rely on that to be the same across 
  different implementations.
Manu Sporny:  Us implementations less is specified be the same 
  either specification go ahead Patrick.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah I agree with this I think covering all 
  state to code possible is a must for case that might need more 
  information I'm thinking maybe some kind of specification that 
  two different errors could return the same error code they would 
  be good to know the the reason for it in the case that some 
  implemented would want to return more detail about the ever I.
Patrick_(IDLab): Good idea to have a sort of predefined Shimmer 
  for how ever bodies should be but leave the content at the ends 
  of the implementer that would be the than what comes to mind for 
  me.
Manu Sporny:  That that is helpful thank you Eddie any other 
  input on this I think basically where we are right now is saying 
  that.
Manu Sporny:  By default use HTTP error codes to return errors 
  where it is implementers can always choose to include an error 
  response object if they want to in the specification May in the 
  future.
Manu Sporny:  Standardize some error response values.
Manu Sporny:  If we think that that's a good thing to do at a 
  later date so I think in general that's what we're saying are 
  there any objections or disagreements that kind of phrasing or 
  that approach.
Manu Sporny:  It's English pea response response codes some 
  implementers may return an error response if they just 
  implementers may return a response for.
Manu Sporny:  HP error the specification May later date to find 
  specific error responses in specific situations go ahead Dave.
Dave Longley:  Yeah I worry that using the camelcase error 
  response here is a little perhaps too prescriptive it does making 
  it sound like if you're going to send an error response that has 
  to match this schema and I think what we want to do instead is 
  say this is a suggested schema but you can do whatever you want 
  and then we should additionally probably bike shed with that 
  schema is since people won't since it's their people will use it 
  or we should remove it because if we're not.
Dave Longley:   One of the reasons not to say.
<dmitri_zagidulin> we should probably look at the various RFCs 
  that specify error detail fields..
Dave Longley:  If we're not if multiple people aren't 
  implementing this in interrupting on it then we might have made 
  the wrong decision and then there might be people that are going 
  to need to change what they've done and they will be pushed back 
  on that because the spec even made a suggestion and so unless 
  we're going to put in expend the effort to make this error 
  response thing good and match what we think is a good idea and 
  have put.
Dave Longley:   Current amount of work into that.
Dave Longley:  Might be better to just say you can send a send a 
  response response is expected to be Jason for example since all 
  the other data here is Jason and leave it at that.
Manu Sporny:  Okay well I think this is ready for a PR and then 
  we can bike shed the pr building noting what you just said well 
  only.
Dave Longley:  Yeah if you can just have some note that says we 
  might want to just say that they are response is Jason and not 
  use any suggested schema that can be bike shed in the pr.
Patrick_(IDLab): I'm just thinking also like if we go back to the 
  test Suite like in the case we want to have like a negative test 
  you know like the test like is invalid credential idea or 
  whichever and we want to analyze the response to match the test 
  might be better to do if there's this like predefined ever Shima 
  and that could be another reason.
Patrick_(IDLab):  and why would be good.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Dave.
Dave Longley:  I think if we're going to do that then that's a 
  that's a case where we would just mandate you must have this in 
  the response so if the test Suite is going to depend on that 
  that's what people would Implement to and then there would be 
  some semblance of interoperable and it so either the test Suites 
  just going to look for HTTP status codes which might be better 
  here since we don't really know what we want the errors to be or 
  we find cases where we do think we know what the we want the 
  heiress to be and then we mandate those.
Dave Longley:   But I don't think we should do something sort of 
  in between that because it ends up.
Dave Longley:  Facto what people are required to do and we just 
  didn't say it and we didn't get the put in the effort to make 
  sure it's what everybody wanted.
Manu Sporny:  All right I'm stopping Patrick okay so noting that 
  we are more or less at time I am going to do this was this was 
  already PR this should probably have been.
Manu Sporny:   Where's the.
Manu Sporny:  Work the issue button reverence and new issue.
Manu Sporny:  Let's see specify how error values it's fi if error 
  details so that's why how are details are returned.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so create issue and then we will mark this as 
  ready for PR.
Manu Sporny:  Okay that's that item thank you everyone for the 
  discussion around that apologies for not getting to the exchanges 
  and points discussion we will start the next call with this item 
  in a few other issues thanks everyone for the great call today I 
  appreciate it have a wonderful rest of your week and we will meet 
  again next week take care bye.
