Thanks to Kaliya Young for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-08-18 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2020-08-18

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Aug/0047.html
Topics:
  1. Announcements
  2. Action Items
  3. Ecosystem Updates
Organizer:
  Heather Vescent and Kim Hamilton Duffy and Wayne Chang
Scribe:
  Kaliya Young
Present:
  Heather Vescent, Wayne Chang, Drummond Reed, Sam Curren, Mike 
  Prorock, Dave Longley, Joe Andrieu, Chris Winczewski, Adrian 
  Gropper, Erica Connell, Christopher Allen, Kaliya Young, Dmitri 
  Zagidulin, James Chartrand, Kim Hamilton Duffy, Manu Sporny, 
  Daniel Buchner, Adam Lemmon, Moses Ma, Juan Caballero, Karyn 
  Bright, Orie Steele, Jeff Orgel, Adrian Hope-Bailie
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-08-18/audio.ogg

Dave Longley: Regrets+
Kaliya Young is scribing.
Wayne Chang:  Topic: Intro & re-introduction
Joni: Executive Director of DIACC
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Software engineer in decentralized identity 
  and credential space. Co-chair of SDS, written various did 
  resolvers in node and part of possibly way to many standards 
  bodies.
CG Bot joined the meeting.
Joe Andrie: former co-chair of this group. Small consulting 
  Legendary Requirements focused on decentralized identity and 
  blockchain

Topic: Announcements

Wayne Chang:  Announcements -- No upcoming events.
IIW is October 20-22
Wayne Chang:  Thank you to Manu Sporney for his contribution to a 
  Jitsi server
Wayne Chang:  We should reserve updates about this soon.

Topic: Action Items

Wayne Chang:  Progress and action items. Multi base mutli-hash 
  hash linked items
Wayne Chang:  What is Multi-hash?
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Owners should speak to it.
Manu Sporny:  These specifications deal with identifiying binary 
  bites of information that have to with a cryptogrphic hash
Wayne Chang: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/133
Manu Sporny:  It is like a tool kit for folks working on VCs and 
  charters have expired at W3C task force - we need to hit a button 
  to bring them back to life we can believe they are more done when 
  VCs
Manu Sporny:  If the group feels we should continue this work we 
  can or just let fade away
Wayne Chang:  Took me a while to get on, so hopefully I didn't 
  miss the update portion [scribe assist by Daniel Buchner]
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/multihash
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/multibase
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/hashlink
Christopher Allen:  Question for manu - blockchain commons looked 
  into potentially using these - these are hashes main use. IPFS 
  never moved on to keys they have been promising that for 4 years 
  we gave up on this. we have moved to CBOR where we are being more 
  productive working with existing libraries.
Christopher Allen:  Coding hashes with CBOR and IPFS.
Manu Sporny:  ChristopherA CBOR doesn't solve the problem - ORIE 
  has gotten more keys into the registry so multi-key is now there 
  and many of us are planning to use this for DID methods if you 
  are going to use CBOR-LD you can use multi-base and mult-hash 
  they are complementary
Daniel Buchner: We use and rely on them
Daniel Buchner: And will continue to
Manu Sporny:  IPFS and many people are using them - uptick in 
  interest. I think they are still relevant and the key stuff is 
  being addressed. People are not spending a lot of time.

Topic: Ecosystem Updates

Wayne Chang:  Starting with DIACC
Wayne Chang:  What organization stands for and vision
Joni: Appreciate opportunity
Joni: Digital identity authentication and council of Canada - 
  75-80 members (They fund us) members from public and private 
  sector - federal government, treasury board secretariet ect.
Joni: many technology organizations providing solutions and 
  services. We were created out of a mandate out of the minister of 
  finance of government of canada
Joni: we have taken a economic focus - what can digital identity 
  do to move GDP
Heather Vescent: +1 Pan Canadian Trust Framework!
Joni: work publishing papers, inform decision makers - principles 
  - open standards being one of them. Pan Canadian Trust Framework 
  focus on guidance and timelines for people. Broad surface
Joni: the scope of what we are looking at with Pan Canadian trust 
  framework - legal, policy - technical and LOA - private and 
  public sector interoperating together. Distributed landscape. 
  Technology model agnostic. Componentized used in different ways. 
  should be able to be used for (old-school) federation and new 
  emerging identity ecosystems. Networks for identity. range of 
  different flavors and kinds of networks.
Joni: SSI - to trusted operator type networks. Pan Canadian is 
  reaching 1.0 - we are alpha testing the framework with public and 
  private sector networks - starting to circle around verify a 
  digital wallet.
Joni: what does it mean to verify a network. Not there yet on 
  verification of network or wallet.
Joni: public sector profile is more focused on public sector 
  issuance of credentials for public sector uses
Joni: would love to hear from folks who would like to collaborate 
  or engage. Get involved on twitter or via linkedIn - we do many 
  public consultations everyone is welcome.
Wayne Chang:  Decentralized Identity Foundation - Dan Buchner
Daniel Buchner:  DIF organization leans on the engineering side - 
  some other efforts too glossary. Tend to be on engineering things 
  people need for implementation.
Daniel Buchner:  Credentials or wider in scope.
Juan Caballero: Left out KERI, heeeeey
Daniel Buchner:  Identifier and Discovery - universal resolver, 
  did well known config, DIDAuthentication - SIOP compatable.
Daniel Buchner:  Working with OPenID foundation for a joint group 
  on this.
Daniel Buchner:  Working on presentation exchange - helps you 
  care less about the wrapper envelopes
Daniel Buchner:  DID communication group work that joined from 
  Aires
Daniel Buchner:  Sidetree method group
Daniel Buchner:  New group Secure Data Store group - 
  underpinnings of what hubs could be built on later.
Daniel Buchner:  Secrets recovery is being worked on at MSFT.
Daniel Buchner:  Three groups working on ZKP that rounds out our 
  efforts.
Juan Caballero: http://medium.com/decentralized-identity
Daniel Buchner:  DIF is a 501(3)6 it is free if you have less 
  then 1000 employees
Juan Caballero: In addition to recent educational content, there 
  are also articles on recently-initiated work items there
Drummond Reed:  TOIP
Drummond Reed:  Launched the first week of may 27 member 
  companies - now at under 120
Drummond Reed:  Hosted by the Linux Foundation it is a JDF 
  project - it can produce pre-standards specification. WE have an 
  open participation policy. Takes a few min to join.
Drummond Reed:  Paid small company and big company options.
Drummond Reed:  Goal of TIOP interoperable stack - decentralized 
  ID and decentralized
Drummond Reed:  Layer one DID
Drummond Reed:  Layer 2 DIDCOM and siop
Layer 3: protocols
Layer 4: trust ecosystem
Drummond Reed:  There is a governance side of the stack and a 
  technology stack
Drummond Reed:  The goal of the effort is interoperability  - to 
  move - may take years to have a fully interoperable trust over IP 
  stack.
Drummond Reed:  There are 6 working groups right now - one on 
  technical stack one
Drummond Reed:  Decentralized semantics moving to Trust over IP
Drummond Reed:  Human Experience working group is starting for 
  all dimensions of human trust.
Drummond Reed:  Working groups join weekly.
Drummond Reed:  Just added a program-Manager
Drummond Reed:  Trying to make mailing list and wikis and githubs 
  - and make everything open and transparent.
Drummond Reed:  Anyone interested in developing things TOIP 
  compatible. interested in working with all groups
Karyn Bright:  Women in Identity
Karyn Bright:  Thanks for the opportunity - northwest of England
Karyn Bright:  In existence informal pull it together in a more 
  formal way - clear vision and mission.
Karyn Bright:  Identity solutions that are intended for everyone 
  be built by everyone.
Karyn Bright:  Starting out with a clear vision and purpose - 
  grow membership groups around this.
Karyn Bright:  Started out as a formal networking support network 
  to meet others at conferences.
Karyn Bright:  Became apparent wanted to see wider representation 
  in identity - racial diversity and disability and identity making 
  sure everyone is represented. 1100 members around 60 countries
Karyn Bright:  We manage this via ambassadors
Karyn Bright:  Supported by sponsorship
Karyn Bright:  Supporting via communications now moved to 
  webinars and virtual meetups.
Karyn Bright:  Now thinking about our vision 2021 what people 
  want is support with career development.
Karyn Bright:  Mentoring programs and interested in that - what 
  resources do we need - we thought people wanted technical help. 
  what our mission now is helping women and underrepresented groups 
  in the industry.
Karyn Bright:  Ultimately not going into competition with the 
  industry - we are working with them to get more underrepresented 
  folks on panels.
Karyn Bright:  Partnerships with others
Karyn Bright:  Women in idenitty.org - follow all the links to 
  join
Heather Vescent: Thanks for joining us today and giving us an 
  update Karyn-Bright
Wayne Chang:  Look around working groups identity groups 
  diversity
TelegramSam C: Hyperledger Aries
Sam Curren:  Project that is focused on off ledger interaction 
  based on on-ledger assets and trust.
Artifacts include common libraries that are rest callable. 
  Frameworks .net python go
Sam Curren:  Humans bad at doing crypto in our heads we need 
  agents to do that.
Sam Curren:  Addition to agent code we need test frameworks and 
  dev code.
Sam Curren: Aries Links: 
  https://chat.hyperledger.org/channel/aries 
  https://github.com/hyperledger/aries 
  https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs 
  https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/tree/master/concepts/0302-aKarries-interop-profile
Sam Curren:  Aries interop profiles - specific integration 
  targets. fixed target by teams wishing to integrate. stable 
  target to integrate to
Sam Curren:  DIDComm version 1 alive and well inside the aires 
  ecosystem. Version 2 is on the DIF.
Drummond Reed: Links for Trust over IP: Website - 
  https://trustoverip.org/
Drummond Reed: White paper: 
  https://trustoverip.org/resources/intro-to-toip/
Drummond Reed: RFC: 
  https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/blob/master/concepts/0289-toip-stack/README.md
Sam Curren:  More then just an idea working cross credential 
  exchange multiple for interoperable. originally Hyperledger Indy 
  but now broadening to others.
Sam Curren:  Agents can work with multiple.
Sam Curren:  Interacting with people improved. Goes along way to 
  man in the middle attack prevention
Sam Curren:  Credential echange (Sorry missed a bit)
Sam Curren:  Focused on code not on design - lots of good stuff
Wayne Chang:  Topic: Q&A and discussion
Sam Curren: 
  https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/ARIES/Aries+Working+Group
Heather Vescent:  One of the reasons I wanted to hear about all 
  these groups. I would like to see the groups work together. I was 
  just curious to hear from some of the groups and your actions for 
  working WITH other groups.
Sam Curren:  Areas that mentioned - there is enough work to do - 
  more people working on it wanted to do it moved over to DIF.
Sam Curren:  Similar thing happening with presentation exchange 
  with DIF - personally I think that is nice when stuff happens 
  that solves our problems so nice when we solve it from the ground 
  up.
Drummond Reed:  With trust over IP we are explicitly helping 
  assemble and integraete components. DIF, W3C, etc we are all 
  about how do we bring this together into interoperable stack. 
  With our program manager we are going to be trying to set up 
  liason relationships to respond
Adrian Hope-Bailie:  So I hear the word interoperable - repeated 
  all the time in this and other contexts and my perspective I 
  don't hear anything that looks like interoperability bluetooth 
  logo etc.
Adrian Hope-Bailie:  Is this my problem - how are we going to 
  translate interoperability into a finite series of badges that 
  people will undersatnd.
Daniel Buchner:  I think to some extent we are ab it early. - we 
  are seeing the components becuase it is something being heavily 
  worked on - presentation exchange stuff
Drummond Reed: To Adrian's point, the ToIP Foundation is 
  explicitly focused on trust marks and certification programs for 
  interop. We have developed a specific type of deliverable called 
  a ToIP Interoperability Profile (TIP) to help drive interop. More 
  information here: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MG6KKwLaiwUpuoJ3sy68sKJ5ddPbFaHqQUsgzE6HSZA/edit?usp=sharing
Daniel Buchner:  So the exchange credential work  is using same 
  logic
Daniel Buchner:  More success in the next 18 months then we have 
  in the last 3 years
Wayne Chang:  W3C credentials community gruop - cultiveate new 
  work - community reports, registries of things, figure out where 
  things can graduate to become standards.
Wayne Chang:  A lot of our prerogative to support new 
  proto-standards to graduate to standards bodies
Juan Caballero:  Interoperability the DIF interop working group 
  has been re-chaired (Juan, Kaliya, Pam)
Juan Caballero:  Overview of existing prior art is where we are 
  starting. SVIP, DIACC, TOIP, we have a good place to start
Juan Caballero: Interop WG agenda: 
  https://github.com/decentralized-identity/interoperability/blob/master/agenda.md 
  (includes link to vote on meeting time :D )
Wayne Chang:  Ecosystem updates - updaters what is your favorite 
  example of interoperability in the ecosystem.
Daniel Buchner:  DID core spec - presentation exchange - won't 
  have as much problem if we keep guts of logic
Drummond
Juan Caballero: Interop WG bibliography/links page: 
  https://www.notion.so/be6763341a014d248f655aea187d7890?v=c9ac48a07f3d411c9a1bea32b55f7e76
Drummond Reed:  As co-editor of DID spec - lean towards that
Drummond Reed:  Agents that speak DIDComm that speak SIOP
Sam Curren:  Personal favorite that is starting a long time Indy 
  was the only ecosystem with a variety of credentials that we did 
  - we are seeing broader adoption of these - heading towards more 
  interop with ZKP - future of that. We have collectively figured 
  out ways to get benifit in new ways
Juan Caballero: Universal Wallet CCG work item when?
Juan Caballero: :D
Wayne Chang:  Sounds up on the up- on up if it was a crypto 
  currency I would buy a lot of it.
Juan Caballero: My favorite interop is yet to come!
Wayne Chang:  We will ajourn early
Juan Caballero: Wallet interop!
Daniel Buchner: Orie is a shillionare
Orie Steele:  Because the question was asked universal wallet was 
  proposed - spec, interop, still waiting for another company to 
  endorse it to become an official work item.
Juan Caballero: ESatus and Trinsic ?
Mike Prorock: Orie, we will leverage and endorse the universal 
  wallet spec
Juan Caballero: Thanks kaliya!
Wayne Chang:  Thanks identity woman for phenomenal notes.
Manu Sporny: +1 Thank for scribing, kaliya! :)
