[2020-08-18T15:59:16.612Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-08-18T15:59:26.419Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-08-18T15:59:41.690Z]	<drummond>	present+
[2020-08-18T15:59:47.122Z]	<TelegramSam>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:00:23.177Z]	<mprorock-mesur_io>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:00:25.677Z]	<dlongley>	regrets+
[2020-08-18T16:00:34.177Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:00:39.447Z]	<heathervescent>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Aug/0047.html
[2020-08-18T16:01:28.840Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:01:52.221Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:03:19.798Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:04:07.807Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:04:16.120Z]	<identitywoman_>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:04:26.463Z]	<drummond>	voip: 278
[2020-08-18T16:04:33.714Z]	<heathervescent>	Scribe: identitywoman_
[2020-08-18T16:04:38.914Z]	<drummond>	voip: 278 is drummond
[2020-08-18T16:04:48.999Z]	<identitywoman_>	wayne: Topic: Intro & re-introduction
[2020-08-18T16:05:12.745Z]	<identitywoman_>	joni: Executive Director of DIACC
[2020-08-18T16:06:50.093Z]	<identitywoman_>	Dmitri: software engineer in decentralized identity and credential space. Co-chair of SDS, written various did resolvers in node and part of possibly way to many standards bodies.
[2020-08-18T16:07:07.108Z]	<ccgbot>	CG Bot joined the meeting.
[2020-08-18T16:07:17.654Z]	<identitywoman_>	Joe Andrie: former co-chair of this group. Small consulting Legendary Requirements focused on decentralized identity and blockchain
[2020-08-18T16:07:34.999Z]	<identitywoman_> 	Topic: Announcements
[2020-08-18T16:07:34.999Z]	<identitywoman_>	wayne: Announcements -- No upcoming events.
[2020-08-18T16:07:39.004Z]	<identitywoman_>	IIW is October 20-22
[2020-08-18T16:08:21.347Z]	<JamesChartrand>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:08:51.624Z]	<identitywoman_>	Wayne: thank you to Manu Sporney for his contribution to a Jitsi server
[2020-08-18T16:09:14.254Z]	<identitywoman_>	Wayne: we should reserve updates about this soon.
[2020-08-18T16:09:39.115Z]	<manu>	q+ to speak to status
[2020-08-18T16:09:39.999Z]	<identitywoman_>	Topic: Action Items
[2020-08-18T16:09:39.261Z]	<identitywoman_>	Wayne: progress and action items. Multi base mutli-hash hash linked items
[2020-08-18T16:10:08.115Z]	<identitywoman_>	Wayne: what is Multi-hash?
[2020-08-18T16:10:11.895Z]	<manu>	q?
[2020-08-18T16:10:15.594Z]	<wayne>	ack manu
[2020-08-18T16:10:15.713Z]	<identitywoman_>	Kim: owners should speak to it.
[2020-08-18T16:10:51.944Z]	<identitywoman_>	Manu: these specifications deal with identifiying binary bites of information that have to with a cryptogrphic hash
[2020-08-18T16:11:20.834Z]	<wayne>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/133
[2020-08-18T16:11:40.863Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-08-18T16:11:44.981Z]	<identitywoman_>	manu: it is like a tool kit for folks working on VCs and charters have expired at W3C task force - we need to hit a button to bring them back to life we can believe they are more done when VCs
[2020-08-18T16:11:58.493Z]	<wayne>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-08-18T16:12:05.333Z]	<identitywoman_>	manu: if the group feels we should continue this work we can or just let fade away
[2020-08-18T16:12:17.793Z]	<dbuc>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:12:41.884Z]	<manu>	q+ to note keys -- Orie has done work on that lately
[2020-08-18T16:12:53.897Z]	<dbuc>	wayne: took me a while to get on, so hopefully I didn't miss the update portion
[2020-08-18T16:12:54.068Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/multihash
[2020-08-18T16:12:58.405Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/multibase
[2020-08-18T16:13:02.165Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/hashlink
[2020-08-18T16:13:05.706Z]	<identitywoman_>	Christophera: question for manu - blockchain commons looked into potentially using these - these are hashes main use. IPFS never moved on to keys they have been promising that for 4 years we gave up on this. we have moved to CBOR where we are being more productive working with existing libraries.
[2020-08-18T16:13:31.474Z]	<identitywoman_>	ChristopherA: coding hashes with CBOR and IPFS.
[2020-08-18T16:13:33.577Z]	<manu>	q-
[2020-08-18T16:13:49.220Z]	<wayne>	ack manu
[2020-08-18T16:14:58.646Z]	<identitywoman_>	manu: ChristopherA CBOR doesn't solve the problem - ORIE has gotten more keys into the registry so multi-key is now there and many of us are planning to use this for DID methods if you are going to use CBOR-LD you can use multi-base and mult-hash they are complementary
[2020-08-18T16:15:17.046Z]	<dbuc>	we use and rely on them
[2020-08-18T16:15:22.261Z]	<dbuc>	and will continue to
[2020-08-18T16:15:27.123Z]	<adamjlemmon>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:15:33.764Z]	<identitywoman_>	manu: IPFS and many people are using them - uptick in interest. I think they are still relevant and the key stuff is being addressed. People are not spending a lot of time.
[2020-08-18T16:13:43.333Z]	<identitywoman_>	Topic: Ecosystem Updates
[2020-08-18T16:15:46.733Z]	<identitywoman_>	Wayne: starting with DIACC
[2020-08-18T16:16:02.404Z]	<identitywoman_>	Wayne: what organization stands for and vision
[2020-08-18T16:16:22.335Z]	<identitywoman_>	Joni: Appreciate opportunity
[2020-08-18T16:16:58.416Z]	<identitywoman_>	Joni: Digital identity authentication and council of Canada - 75-80 members (They fund us) members from public and private sector - federal government, treasury board secretariet ect.
[2020-08-18T16:17:30.773Z]	<identitywoman_>	Joni: many technology organizations providing solutions and services. We were created out of a mandate out of the minister of finance of government of canada
[2020-08-18T16:17:50.685Z]	<identitywoman_>	joni: we have taken a economic focus - what can digital identity do to move GDP
[2020-08-18T16:18:22.255Z]	<heathervescent>	+1 Pan Canadian Trust Framework!
[2020-08-18T16:18:38.633Z]	<identitywoman_>	joni: work publishing papers, inform decision makers - principles - open standards being one of them. Pan Canadian Trust Framework focus on guidance and timelines for people. Broad surface
[2020-08-18T16:19:59.840Z]	<identitywoman_>	joni: the scope of what we are looking at with Pan Canadian trust framework - legal, policy - technical and LOA - private and public sector interoperating together. Distributed landscape. Technology model agnostic. Componentized used in different ways. should be able to be used for (old-school) federation and new emerging identity ecosystems. Networks for identity. range of different flavors and kinds of networks.
[2020-08-18T16:20:41.146Z]	<identitywoman_>	joni: SSI - to trusted operator type networks. Pan Canadian is reaching 1.0 - we are alpha testing the framework with public and private sector networks - starting to circle around verify a digital wallet.
[2020-08-18T16:21:02.913Z]	<MosesMa>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:21:11.345Z]	<identitywoman_>	Joni: what does it mean to verify a network. Not there yet on verification of network or wallet.
[2020-08-18T16:21:36.344Z]	<identitywoman_>	Joni: public sector profile is more focused on public sector issuance of credentials for public sector uses
[2020-08-18T16:22:09.982Z]	<identitywoman_>	joni: would love to hear from folks who would like to collaborate or engage. Get involved on twitter or via linkedIn - we do many public consultations everyone is welcome.
[2020-08-18T16:22:17.433Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:22:45.105Z]	<identitywoman_>	wayne: Decentralized Identity Foundation - Dan Buchner
[2020-08-18T16:23:25.635Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: DIF organization leans on the engineering side - some other efforts too glossary. Tend to be on engineering things people need for implementation.
[2020-08-18T16:23:44.462Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: Credentials or wider in scope.
[2020-08-18T16:24:07.702Z]	<by_caballero>	left out KERI, heeeeey
[2020-08-18T16:24:20.926Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: Identifier and Discovery - universal resolver, did well known config, DIDAuthentication - SIOP compatable.
[2020-08-18T16:24:29.919Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: Working with OPenID foundation for a joint group on this.
[2020-08-18T16:24:57.984Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: working on presentation exchange - helps you care less about the wrapper envelopes
[2020-08-18T16:25:16.965Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: DID communication group work that joined from Aires
[2020-08-18T16:25:30.086Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: Sidetree method group
[2020-08-18T16:25:47.183Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: New group Secure Data Store group - underpinnings of what hubs could be built on later.
[2020-08-18T16:25:56.444Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: Secrets recovery is being worked on at MSFT.
[2020-08-18T16:26:06.697Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: Three groups working on ZKP that rounds out our efforts.
[2020-08-18T16:26:13.598Z]	<by_caballero>	http://medium.com/decentralized-identity
[2020-08-18T16:26:25.524Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: DIF is a 501(3)6 it is free if you have less then 1000 employees
[2020-08-18T16:26:33.855Z]	<by_caballero>	in addition to recent educational content, there are also articles on recently-initiated work items there
[2020-08-18T16:26:50.485Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: TOIP
[2020-08-18T16:27:18.761Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: launched the first week of may 27 member companies - now at under 120
[2020-08-18T16:27:59.961Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: hosted by the Linux Foundation it is a JDF project - it can produce pre-standards specification. WE have an open participation policy. Takes a few min to join.
[2020-08-18T16:28:12.214Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: paid small company and big company options.
[2020-08-18T16:28:34.659Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: Goal of TIOP interoperable stack - decentralized ID and decentralized
[2020-08-18T16:28:39.406Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: Layer one DID
[2020-08-18T16:28:50.934Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: Layer 2 DIDCOM and siop
[2020-08-18T16:28:59.864Z]	<identitywoman_>	Layer 3: protocols
[2020-08-18T16:29:10.174Z]	<identitywoman_>	Layer 4: trust ecosystem
[2020-08-18T16:29:33.307Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: there is a governance side of the stack and a technology stack
[2020-08-18T16:29:58.405Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: the goal of the effort is interoperability  - to move - may take years to have a fully interoperable trust over IP stack.
[2020-08-18T16:30:43.437Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: There are 6 working groups right now - one on technical stack one
[2020-08-18T16:30:56.924Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: decentralized semantics moving to Trust over IP
[2020-08-18T16:31:09.902Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: Human Experience working group is starting for all dimensions of human trust.
[2020-08-18T16:31:17.103Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: working groups join weekly.
[2020-08-18T16:31:31.354Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: just added a program-Manager
[2020-08-18T16:31:51.624Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: trying to make mailing list and wikis and githubs - and make everything open and transparent.
[2020-08-18T16:32:10.875Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: anyone interested in developing things TOIP compatible. interested in working with all groups
[2020-08-18T16:32:17.976Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: women in Identity
[2020-08-18T16:32:46.844Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: thanks for the opportunity - northwest of England
[2020-08-18T16:33:19.403Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: in existence informal pull it together in a more formal way - clear vision and mission.
[2020-08-18T16:33:33.224Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: identity solutions that are intended for everyone be built by everyone.
[2020-08-18T16:33:53.862Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: starting out with a clear vision and purpose - grow membership groups around this.
[2020-08-18T16:34:06.875Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: started out as a formal networking support network to meet others at conferences.
[2020-08-18T16:34:50.656Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: became apparent wanted to see wider representation in identity - racial diversity and disability and identity making sure everyone is represented. 1100 members around 60 countries
[2020-08-18T16:34:58.485Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:34:59.525Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: we manage this via ambassadors
[2020-08-18T16:35:13.635Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: supported by sponsorship
[2020-08-18T16:35:43.347Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: supporting via communications now moved to webinars and virtual meetups.
[2020-08-18T16:36:07.484Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: Now thinking about our vision 2021 what people want is support with career development.
[2020-08-18T16:36:31.179Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:36:51.876Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: Mentoring programs and interested in that - what resources do we need - we thought people wanted technical help. what our mission now is helping women and underrepresented groups in the industry.
[2020-08-18T16:37:45.935Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: ultimately not going into competition with the industry - we are working with them to get more underrepresented folks on panels.
[2020-08-18T16:37:53.305Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: partnerships with others
[2020-08-18T16:38:01.473Z]	<heathervescent>	voip: noise?
[2020-08-18T16:38:18.805Z]	<identitywoman_>	Karyn-Bright: women in idenitty.org - follow all the links to join
[2020-08-18T16:38:42.013Z]	<heathervescent>	Thanks for joining us today and giving us an update Karyn-Bright
[2020-08-18T16:39:09.963Z]	<identitywoman_>	wayne: Look around working groups identity groups diversity
[2020-08-18T16:39:27.623Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam C: Hyperledger Aries
[2020-08-18T16:39:47.540Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: project that is focused on off ledger interaction based on on-ledger assets and trust.
[2020-08-18T16:40:09.683Z]	<identitywoman_>	Artifacts include common libraries that are rest callable. Frameworks .net python go
[2020-08-18T16:40:31.620Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: humans bad at doing crypto in our heads we need agents to do that.
[2020-08-18T16:40:45.645Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: addition to agent code we need test frameworks and dev code.
[2020-08-18T16:41:11.776Z]	<TelegramSam>	Aries Links: https://chat.hyperledger.org/channel/aries https://github.com/hyperledger/aries https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/tree/master/concepts/0302-aKarries-interop-profile
[2020-08-18T16:41:14.921Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: Aries interop profiles - specific integration targets. fixed target by teams wishing to integrate. stable target to integrate to
[2020-08-18T16:41:37.673Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: DIDComm version 1 alive and well inside the aires ecosystem. Version 2 is on the DIF.
[2020-08-18T16:41:48.054Z]	<drummond>	Links for Trust over IP: Website - https://trustoverip.org/
[2020-08-18T16:41:55.722Z]	<drummond>	White paper: https://trustoverip.org/resources/intro-to-toip/
[2020-08-18T16:42:01.153Z]	<drummond>	RFC: https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/blob/master/concepts/0289-toip-stack/README.md
[2020-08-18T16:42:19.637Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: more then just an idea working cross credential exchange multiple for interoperable. originally Hyperledger Indy but now broadening to others.
[2020-08-18T16:42:32.127Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: Agents can work with multiple.
[2020-08-18T16:42:55.754Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: interacting with people improved. Goes along way to man in the middle attack prevention
[2020-08-18T16:43:06.796Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: credential echange (Sorry missed a bit)
[2020-08-18T16:43:32.822Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: Focused on code not on design - lots of good stuff
[2020-08-18T16:43:44.999Z]	<identitywoman_>	Wayne: Topic: Q&A and discussion
[2020-08-18T16:43:47.765Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2020-08-18T16:43:47.807Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2020-08-18T16:43:50.294Z]	<TelegramSam>	https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/ARIES/Aries+Working+Group
[2020-08-18T16:43:58.926Z]	<wayne>	ack heathervescent
[2020-08-18T16:44:48.275Z]	<identitywoman_>	Heather: one of the reasons I wanted to hear about all these groups. I would like to see the groups work together. I was just curious to hear from some of the groups and your actions for working WITH other groups.
[2020-08-18T16:45:03.773Z]	<TelegramSam>	q+ to talk about Aries cross group work
[2020-08-18T16:45:11.443Z]	<wayne>	ack TelegramSam
[2020-08-18T16:45:17.307Z]	<drummond>	q+
[2020-08-18T16:45:46.985Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: areas that mentioned - there is enough work to do - more people working on it wanted to do it moved over to DIF.
[2020-08-18T16:46:16.613Z]	<wayne>	ack drummond
[2020-08-18T16:46:17.020Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: similar thing happening with presentation exchange with DIF - personally I think that is nice when stuff happens that solves our problems so nice when we solve it from the ground up.
[2020-08-18T16:47:16.104Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: with trust over IP we are explicitly helping assemble and integraete components. DIF, W3C, etc we are all about how do we bring this together into interoperable stack. With our program manager we are going to be trying to set up liason relationships to respond
[2020-08-18T16:47:18.427Z]	<wayne>	q?
[2020-08-18T16:47:20.693Z]	<wayne>	ack agropper
[2020-08-18T16:48:00.376Z]	<identitywoman_>	Adrian: so I hear the word interoperable - repeated all the time in this and other contexts and my perspective I don't hear anything that looks like interoperability bluetooth logo etc.
[2020-08-18T16:48:06.042Z]	<dbuc>	q+
[2020-08-18T16:48:23.905Z]	<wayne>	ack dbuc
[2020-08-18T16:48:27.074Z]	<identitywoman_>	Adrian: is this my problem - how are we going to translate interoperability into a finite series of badges that people will undersatnd.
[2020-08-18T16:48:37.579Z]	<by_caballero>	q?
[2020-08-18T16:48:57.120Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: I think to some extent we are ab it early. - we are seeing the components becuase it is something being heavily worked on - presentation exchange stuff
[2020-08-18T16:49:08.447Z]	<drummond>	To Adrian's point, the ToIP Foundation is explicitly focused on trust marks and certification programs for interop. We have developed a specific type of deliverable called a ToIP Interoperability Profile (TIP) to help drive interop. More information here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MG6KKwLaiwUpuoJ3sy68sKJ5ddPbFaHqQUsgzE6HSZA/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-08-18T16:49:25.395Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: so the exchange credential work  is using same logic
[2020-08-18T16:50:33.727Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: more success in the next 18 months then we have in the last 3 years
[2020-08-18T16:51:23.143Z]	<identitywoman_>	Wayne: W3C credentials community gruop - cultiveate new work - community reports, registries of things, figure out where things can graduate to become standards.
[2020-08-18T16:52:11.362Z]	<identitywoman_>	wayne: a lot of our prerogative to support new proto-standards to graduate to standards bodies
[2020-08-18T16:52:16.945Z]	<by_caballero>	q+
[2020-08-18T16:52:21.545Z]	<wayne>	ack by_caballero
[2020-08-18T16:53:00.439Z]	<identitywoman_>	Juan: Interoperability the DIF interop working group has been re-chaired (Juan, Kaliya, Pam)
[2020-08-18T16:53:38.807Z]	<identitywoman_>	Juan: overview of existing prior art is where we are starting. SVIP, DIACC, TOIP, we have a good place to start
[2020-08-18T16:54:17.733Z]	<by_caballero>	interop WG agenda: https://github.com/decentralized-identity/interoperability/blob/master/agenda.md (includes link to vote on meeting time :D )
[2020-08-18T16:54:35.293Z]	<identitywoman_>	Wayne: ecosystem updates - updaters what is your favorite example of interoperability in the ecosystem.
[2020-08-18T16:54:58.022Z]	<identitywoman_>	dbuc: DID core spec - presentation exchange - won't have as much problem if we keep guts of logic
[2020-08-18T16:54:59.980Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond
[2020-08-18T16:55:06.193Z]	<by_caballero>	interop WG bibliography/links page: https://www.notion.so/be6763341a014d248f655aea187d7890?v=c9ac48a07f3d411c9a1bea32b55f7e76
[2020-08-18T16:55:17.066Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: as co-editor of DID spec - lean towards that
[2020-08-18T16:55:37.780Z]	<identitywoman_>	Drummond: Agents that speak DIDComm that speak SIOP
[2020-08-18T16:57:08.257Z]	<identitywoman_>	TelegramSam: Personal favorite that is starting a long time Indy was the only ecosystem with a variety of credentials that we did - we are seeing broader adoption of these - heading towards more interop with ZKP - future of that. We have collectively figured out ways to get benifit in new ways
[2020-08-18T16:57:23.015Z]	<by_caballero>	Universal Wallet CCG work item when?
[2020-08-18T16:57:24.444Z]	<by_caballero>	:D
[2020-08-18T16:57:30.965Z]	<identitywoman_>	Wayne: sounds up on the up- on up if it was a crypto currency I would buy a lot of it.
[2020-08-18T16:57:38.639Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2020-08-18T16:57:40.978Z]	<by_caballero>	my favorite interop is yet to come!
[2020-08-18T16:57:42.213Z]	<identitywoman_>	Wayne: we will ajourn early
[2020-08-18T16:57:43.073Z]	<by_caballero>	wallet interop!
[2020-08-18T16:57:49.427Z]	<wayne>	ack Orie
[2020-08-18T16:57:58.264Z]	<dbuc>	Orie is a shillionare
[2020-08-18T16:58:14.107Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-08-18T16:58:21.803Z]	<identitywoman_>	Orie: because the question was asked universal wallet was proposed - spec, interop, still waiting for another company to endorse it to become an official work item.
[2020-08-18T16:58:25.282Z]	<by_caballero>	eSatus and Trinsic ?
[2020-08-18T16:58:28.484Z]	<wayne>	ack Orie
[2020-08-18T16:58:38.213Z]	<mprorock>	orie, we will leverage and endorse the universal wallet spec
[2020-08-18T16:58:51.834Z]	<by_caballero>	thanks kaliya!
[2020-08-18T16:58:58.120Z]	<identitywoman_>	Wayne: Thanks identity woman for phenomenal notes.
[2020-08-18T16:58:58.944Z]	<manu>	+1 thank for scribing, kaliya! :)
[2020-08-18T17:00:52.222Z]	<heathervescent>	Voip: connections?
[2020-08-18T17:02:32.938Z]	<heathervescent>	voip: disconnect 277
[2020-08-18T17:02:54.132Z]	<heathervescent>	voip: disconnect 28b
