[2020-08-10T15:00:14.235Z]	<tzviya>	present+ Tzviya_Siegman
[2020-08-10T15:01:21.403Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:01:37.590Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Aug/0031.html
[2020-08-10T15:02:05.630Z]	<JamesChartrand>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:02:15.130Z]	<PhilippMIT>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:04:16.930Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-08-10T15:04:25.562Z]	<stuartf>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:04:26.731Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-08-10T15:04:41.097Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-08-10T15:04:52.891Z]	<Balazs>	Did we start to use jitsi?
[2020-08-10T15:04:54.067Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-08-10T15:05:35.324Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:05:37.882Z]	<JimKelly_PESC>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:05:46.495Z]	<GeorgeArtem>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:05:49.132Z]	<Balazs>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:05:51.861Z]	<javaservlets>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:06:32.838Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:07:49.684Z]	<by_caballero>	thanks stewart!
[2020-08-10T15:07:53.083Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: stuartf
[2020-08-10T15:08:06.243Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:08:44.942Z]	<stuartf>	kimhd: introductions and re-intros
[2020-08-10T15:08:46.876Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-10T15:09:03.378Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2020-08-10T15:09:12.375Z]	<James_Dz>	present+ James_Dz, GeorgeArtem, jkitchens
[2020-08-10T15:09:15.612Z]	<stuartf>	James_Dz: with blockchain group at kaiser permanente
[2020-08-10T15:09:22.343Z]	<ottonomy>	present 50% (double booked today not on audio)
[2020-08-10T15:09:38.446Z]	<kimhd>	GeorgeArtem: George Artem from Seatte, WA
[2020-08-10T15:09:46.552Z]	<stuartf>	george: UW grad student, trying to do a vc pilot
[2020-08-10T15:09:56.923Z]	<stuartf>	jkitchens: with credential engine
[2020-08-10T15:10:50.232Z]	<stuartf>	Topic: Modeling VCs for education
[2020-08-10T15:10:50.652Z]	<T3-Phil>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:11:02.019Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pt-VNnjoYgl23Mlu0Tjyax5RgANPBfDijERz0SNYfSo/edit#
[2020-08-10T15:11:36.662Z]	<stuartf>	... updates, context: building a document with the goal of clarifying fitting existing schemas to the vc format
[2020-08-10T15:11:40.443Z]	<Jim_G>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:11:41.717Z]	<adamjlemmon>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:11:52.711Z]	<stuartf>	... document pulls together examples of best practices pilots
[2020-08-10T15:12:29.153Z]	<stuartf>	... we're an incubation org not a standards org, but we work with the standards orgs to ensure we're going the correct direction
[2020-08-10T15:12:57.755Z]	<stuartf>	... document outlines types of credentials people want to create
[2020-08-10T15:13:19.787Z]	<stuartf>	... one interesting area is what to do with xml
[2020-08-10T15:13:31.894Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pt-VNnjoYgl23Mlu0Tjyax5RgANPBfDijERz0SNYfSo/edit#heading=h.t19npk98rich
[2020-08-10T15:13:38.167Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:13:45.252Z]	<kimhd>	Example: https://github.com/european-commission-europass/Europass-Learning-Model/blob/master/XML%20Examples/Ildiko%20Mazar_Certificate%20of%20Excellence.xml
[2020-08-10T15:13:48.365Z]	<stuartf>	... example 4 shows transcribing to json, but is currently in xml
[2020-08-10T15:14:21.401Z]	<stuartf>	... why not as easy as just mapping to json, xml format for conforming to European legal standards
[2020-08-10T15:14:47.316Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-07-21/#topic-3
[2020-08-10T15:15:04.832Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1R_vM55wQyJ5jiiD6ro3crCFIvC2TGxyZ8_B2t45RXFo/edit#slide=id.g8c7bea63ca_0_68
[2020-08-10T15:15:05.723Z]	<stuartf>	... may take months to year to get legal approval for json, could just do xml to conform to current legal reqs
[2020-08-10T15:15:29.952Z]	<stuartf>	... we don't want to wait for legislature to allow other signature suites
[2020-08-10T15:15:32.292Z]	<kimhd>	voip: noise?
[2020-08-10T15:15:43.501Z]	<kimhd>	voip: mute 220
[2020-08-10T15:16:32.272Z]	<stuartf>	... extend vc data model to express support for xml mapping including any necessary context needed in w3c
[2020-08-10T15:16:49.933Z]	<stuartf>	... credentials community group is the home for the vc data model
[2020-08-10T15:17:16.443Z]	<stuartf>	... not a general recommendation for any group serializing xml
[2020-08-10T15:17:45.213Z]	<stuartf>	... a case by case decision, to make it easier for ppl with strict xml requirements
[2020-08-10T15:17:52.547Z]	<kimhd>	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XAdES
[2020-08-10T15:18:29.603Z]	<stuartf>	... hoping that changes from w3c will allow edci to continue using xml formatted credentials
[2020-08-10T15:18:45.932Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-10T15:18:52.513Z]	<stuartf>	... as well as other groups such as scholarly publishing
[2020-08-10T15:19:09.484Z]	<stuartf>	... moving on to open discussion topics
[2020-08-10T15:19:55.357Z]	<stuartf>	... generalization of vocab, discussion of issuance roles and impact,
[2020-08-10T15:20:19.322Z]	<stuartf>	... ler wrapper standardization
[2020-08-10T15:21:14.242Z]	<stuartf>	JimKelly_PESC: launched as ilr recommended practices, work is now underway
[2020-08-10T15:21:27.800Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	q+ to add on IEEE ILR
[2020-08-10T15:21:41.535Z]	<kimhd>	ack Simone_Ravaioli
[2020-08-10T15:22:00.722Z]	<stuartf>	Simone_Ravaioli: ilr working group meeting thursday 11am eastern
[2020-08-10T15:22:26.443Z]	<stuartf>	... beginning base document for the workstream, build on w3c work
[2020-08-10T15:22:43.280Z]	<stuartf>	... wrapper doc and doc we're discussing today
[2020-08-10T15:22:52.820Z]	<ottonomy>	@kimhd I will join the audio stream for this meeting then
[2020-08-10T15:23:06.715Z]	<stuartf>	... join call on thurs if you are interested
[2020-08-10T15:23:21.052Z]	<stuartf>	... will go through base doc and governance issues
[2020-08-10T15:23:57.926Z]	<stuartf>	kimhd: will assume ieee is home for ler going forward, and try to keep our docs up to date
[2020-08-10T15:24:49.624Z]	<stuartf>	... we are standards integration and getting pilots off the ground
[2020-08-10T15:25:33.925Z]	<stuartf>	... ieee is more a combination of standardization (taking our work as examples) as well as concerns around governance
[2020-08-10T15:25:48.293Z]	<stuartf>	... next discuss generalization of vocab
[2020-08-10T15:26:02.456Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Agenda for IEEE ILR meeting --> http://bit.ly/IEEE-ILR-WG
[2020-08-10T15:26:21.100Z]	<tayken>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:26:40.657Z]	<stuartf>	... context, pilots want to work with the standard, but aren't familiar with the existing work
[2020-08-10T15:27:13.026Z]	<javaservlets>	I can see the agenda
[2020-08-10T15:27:26.107Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Correction Agenda link for IEEE ILR - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tkcBk3qHEG5CnPXJp8c7Yt1KMdQ4Xx1tTl1LpFuRx5c/edit
[2020-08-10T15:28:01.103Z]	<ottonomy>	Catching up, we're on page 2 of this document: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pt-VNnjoYgl23Mlu0Tjyax5RgANPBfDijERz0SNYfSo/edit
[2020-08-10T15:29:35.733Z]	<stuartf>	... want to integrate with existing standards groups like open badges
[2020-08-10T15:29:58.563Z]	<stuartf>	ottonomy: there's a common pattern accross these groups
[2020-08-10T15:30:24.313Z]	<stuartf>	... defined credential or badge can be issued to multiple people over time
[2020-08-10T15:30:33.842Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:30:35.473Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-10T15:30:59.264Z]	<stuartf>	... can we use a property across use cases
[2020-08-10T15:31:06.401Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Aug/0031.html
[2020-08-10T15:31:08.693Z]	<stuartf>	... "degree" seems limiting
[2020-08-10T15:31:27.752Z]	<stuartf>	... could use something like "badge" or invent something new
[2020-08-10T15:31:38.012Z]	<T3-Phil>	+1 to has achieved.  Badge, not so much.
[2020-08-10T15:31:48.477Z]	<stuartf>	kimhd: "has achieved" seems like it fits well across standards
[2020-08-10T15:32:03.684Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2020-08-10T15:32:12.692Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-10T15:32:14.597Z]	<stuartf>	... could compare ler
[2020-08-10T15:32:15.725Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2020-08-10T15:32:24.284Z]	<kimhd>	ack Kerri_Lemoie
[2020-08-10T15:32:30.333Z]	<JimKelly_PESC>	q+
[2020-08-10T15:32:41.058Z]	<stuartf>	Kerri_Lemoie: is this to say "has achieved this type of credential"?
[2020-08-10T15:33:38.598Z]	<stuartf>	ottonomy: not type, you could say has acchieved bachelors, but we want to say has achieved bachelors of (subject) from (institution)
[2020-08-10T15:33:44.013Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-10T15:34:01.772Z]	<stuartf>	... could also map to skills
[2020-08-10T15:34:26.644Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	CTID info: https://credreg.net/registry/handbook#ctid
[2020-08-10T15:35:33.903Z]	<stuartf>	jkitchens: ctid does not indicate a cred has been issued, more like a unique product identifier
[2020-08-10T15:35:35.236Z]	<ottonomy>	I asserted "A credential has been assigned an ID by Credential Engine" as the definition of "CTID"
[2020-08-10T15:36:40.774Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	+1 to bridge
[2020-08-10T15:36:41.111Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-10T15:36:45.454Z]	<stuartf>	kimhd: credential engine also has a registry of credential types, we're talking about helping bridge between these registries and actual degrees
[2020-08-10T15:36:48.593Z]	<kimhd>	ack JimKelly_PESC
[2020-08-10T15:37:21.137Z]	<stuartf>	JimKelly_PESC: like "has achieved" as a generalization, but where does it live? in the wrapper?
[2020-08-10T15:37:32.994Z]	<ottonomy>	q+
[2020-08-10T15:37:54.646Z]	<stuartf>	kimhd: vc itself is just the wrapper, ler/ilr is a lot like this
[2020-08-10T15:38:31.416Z]	<stuartf>	... the terms and type definitions will likely live at the standards body, this is the bridge
[2020-08-10T15:38:31.776Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-08-10T15:38:52.843Z]	<stuartf>	ottonomy: there's a separation of wrapper standard and payload standard
[2020-08-10T15:39:13.473Z]	<stuartf>	... can use flexible range
[2020-08-10T15:39:36.154Z]	<stuartf>	... can we come up with a consistent way to represent across standards
[2020-08-10T15:39:53.424Z]	<stuartf>	... could start by trying pilots with "has achieved"
[2020-08-10T15:40:37.440Z]	<stuartf>	... prove that this has value in the market then bring it to the standards body that we are bridging in the pilot
[2020-08-10T15:41:14.505Z]	<tzviya>	q+
[2020-08-10T15:41:17.496Z]	<stuartf>	... not forcing another standards body to adopt, but provide open standard so they can
[2020-08-10T15:41:45.577Z]	<kimhd>	Nate do you want to respond?
[2020-08-10T15:41:59.812Z]	<stuartf>	tzviya: sounds like you allow other standards to implement this so they can be compatible, that could be a heavy lift
[2020-08-10T15:41:59.962Z]	<tzviya>	q-
[2020-08-10T15:42:36.463Z]	<kimhd>	q+ T3-Phil
[2020-08-10T15:42:38.978Z]	<stuartf>	ottonomy: if we can prove the value of the approach the standards may follow
[2020-08-10T15:43:21.598Z]	<stuartf>	... opportunity for standards bodies to align with wrapper and payload to prove interoperability
[2020-08-10T15:43:40.304Z]	<kimhd>	q+ re IEEE impact
[2020-08-10T15:43:48.052Z]	<stuartf>	... allow machine understanding of the credential
[2020-08-10T15:44:04.139Z]	<tzviya>	q+ to ask about issuer in context of VC vs badging (if not too off-topic)
[2020-08-10T15:44:13.844Z]	<stuartf>	... learn enough to be able to get to machine understanding
[2020-08-10T15:44:17.613Z]	<kimhd>	ack T3-Phil
[2020-08-10T15:44:30.941Z]	<kimhd>	Nate I'll give you the floor to respond
[2020-08-10T15:44:46.014Z]	<stuartf>	phil: clarification, looks to be proper use of the "extensions" property of badges
[2020-08-10T15:45:06.032Z]	<stuartf>	ottonomy: don't think this quite "extensions"
[2020-08-10T15:45:32.379Z]	<stuartf>	... can duplicate data in properties to layer in w3c properties
[2020-08-10T15:45:50.458Z]	<stuartf>	... not enough to meaningfully validate
[2020-08-10T15:46:27.384Z]	<stuartf>	... probably could use the "extensions" but it's probably not enough to do this
[2020-08-10T15:46:39.703Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-10T15:47:14.718Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-08-10T15:48:10.851Z]	<stuartf>	kimhd: defining "has achieved" in open badges, we could pass this along to them to see if they'd adopt
[2020-08-10T15:48:14.185Z]	<kimhd>	ack tzviya
[2020-08-10T15:48:26.175Z]	<JimKelly_PESC>	q+
[2020-08-10T15:49:22.472Z]	<stuartf>	tzviya: in badging, issuing organization may not be the same kind of organization as a credential, can we assert accreditation by university?
[2020-08-10T15:50:26.793Z]	<stuartf>	ottonomy: open badges infers that the definer of the achievment is the only one who can issue
[2020-08-10T15:50:59.557Z]	<stuartf>	... there could be use cases for making more generic achievments that can be issued by someone other than the creator
[2020-08-10T15:51:01.132Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-10T15:51:12.036Z]	<kimhd>	ack JimKelly_PESC
[2020-08-10T15:51:43.122Z]	<stuartf>	JimKelly_PESC: this feels like just one of many characteristics that may be required for true interop
[2020-08-10T15:52:01.835Z]	<stuartf>	... could come up with a whole set that need to be shared across payload specs
[2020-08-10T15:52:50.778Z]	<stuartf>	kimhd: that's true, don't want to reinvent the wheel
[2020-08-10T15:53:26.573Z]	<stuartf>	... use best practices from different standards bodies, would love to just use an existing set of terms if they exist
[2020-08-10T15:53:35.765Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-10T15:53:53.055Z]	<stuartf>	... as a pilot group we have to id those and turn them over to standards groups
[2020-08-10T15:54:08.039Z]	<stuartf>	... like proceeding with "has achieved"
[2020-08-10T15:54:49.952Z]	<stuartf>	... proposal: these are using json-ld, maintain a set of work-in-progress schemas
[2020-08-10T15:55:25.792Z]	<stuartf>	... dcc has a playground for experimenting with creds, would like to update that to point to examples from here
[2020-08-10T15:55:52.661Z]	<T3-Phil>	+1 to that Kim
[2020-08-10T15:55:58.037Z]	<ottonomy>	Glad to hear some good support for has achieved. Looking forward to working the action items. Action item could be: make recommendations of vocabularies where hasAchieved could be situated for good interoperability and community usage. Develop JSON-LD-schema/JSON-schema is a good action item
