Thanks to Jonathan Holt for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-01-14/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2020-01-15

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Jan/0071.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions & Reintroductions
  2. Announcements and Reminders
  3. Action Items
  4. Dept of EDU report out
  5. Scribe tools issues
Organizer:
  Kim Hamilton Duffy and Christopher Allen and Joe Andrieu
Scribe:
  Jonathan Holt
Present:
  Orie Steele, Markus Sabadello, Joel Hartshorn, Carl DiClementi, 
  Drummond Reed, Wayne Vaughn, Chris Winczewski, Amy Guy, Ted 
  Thibodeau, Kim Hamilton Duffy, John Jordan, Adrian Gropper, Gabe 
  Cohen, Joe Andrieu, Ganesh Annan, Christopher Allen, Simone 
  Ravaoli, Jonathan Holt, Tim Bouma, Dave Roberts, Juan Caballero, 
  Dave Longley, Manu Sporny, Heather Vescent, Dmitri Zagidulin, Ken 
  Ebert, Riley Hughes, Kaliya Young, Jeff Orgel
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-01-15/audio.ogg

Amy Guy: Regrets+
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
Tim Bouma: Tim Bouma, Dave Roberts - Government of Canada
Jonathan Holt is scribing.
Jonathan Holt is scribing.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Simone Ravaoli from Digitary
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Joelh from usaa
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Riley Hughes from Streetcred
Riley Hughes: Riley from  ID
John Jordan: Tomislav!

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://www.knowidentity.com/2020-conference/
Kimhd Anouncements F2F in amsterdam,
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxx-30-2020a-tickets-79016788341
Kim Hamilton Duffy: http://www.cvent.com/d/fhqnf3/4W
Christopher Allen: https://rwot10.eventbrite.com

Topic: Announcements and Reminders

Heather Vescent:  Final report from DHS research was released 
  today.
Orie Steele: Link to report?
Juan Caballero: https://bit.ly/GSCreport
  ... State of decentralized ID survey.  taking the temperature
Carl DiClementi: Seems like there is an echo from someone, please 
  mute if you're not talking
Heather Vescent: State of Decentralized Identity 2020 survey: 
  https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/SODI2020w3c
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22

Topic: Action Items

Kim Hamilton Duffy: Need to host Schema for current JSON-LD 
  Signatures
Heather Vescent: Introducing Sensors, Identifiers, & Digital 
  Twins Rep[ort link: https://bit.ly/GSCreport
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Good work closing out issues. We have some 
  JSON-LD issues not sure how to close
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/97
  ... issue#97 need to host JSON-LD secure signature.
Manu Sporny:   Not much progress/no progress
  ... low priority at present
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  This is a digital signature issue.  we need 
  to work together to get some more momentum.
Christopher Allen:   Does anyone else have priority?
Christopher Allen:  Anyway to work together?
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Point of order regarding background noise
Jonathan Holt:  JSON-LD signatures --  it's about hosting schema. 
   not using in method but want to support. having problems parsing 
  re rdf normalization [scribe assist by Kim Hamilton Duffy]
Orie Steele: Link to issues would be helpful, if you want 
  comments from the group.
Manu Sporny:   The difficulty is that everyone is asking for 
  something different.  to be clear.  there is a reference 
  implementation in JS.
Markus Sabadello: There's a work-in-progress LD signature 
  implementation in Java: 
  https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/ld-signatures-java
Manu Sporny: https://web-payments.org/contexts/security-v2.jsonld
Orie Steele: If you are interested in building Linked Data 
  Signatures for any JOSE based JWS: 
  https://github.com/transmute-industries/linked-data-signature-starter-kit
  ... while there aren't reference implementation in your 
  favorite language.  there need more work on the specs.
  ... if you are deploying in JS then there are implementations 
  there
  ... we are moving forward, but need people to do the work.  
  need another call to discuss.
Christopher Allen:  Keep running into people working on different 
  implementation like C++ but are out of date or need extra stuff.  
  yes it is a documenation problem but disagree it is low priority.
  ... perhaps updating examples, and point to the JS 
  implementation and working examples to compare it against.  hard 
  to point to and the larger exosystem is looking at JWT as an 
  alternative.
Dmitri Zagidulin: I'd love to hear specifics about which examples 
  aren't working? the ld-signatures spec examples are up to date..
Christopher Allen: They don’t do signatures
Ganesh Annan: Here is a link to the JS implementation 
  https://github.com/digitalbazaar/jsonld-signatures
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  We keep having github issues come up 
  regarding JSON-LD, my concerns is that they aren't being filed 
  away and addressed elsewhere.  do we need a new task force?
Orie Steele:   Agree with ChristopherA, the challenge is there 
  are a lot of documentation that are out of date and should be 
  marked deprecated.
Heather Vescent: Someone is making a lot of background noise.
Carl DiClementi: +1 A task / feature is *incomplete* until all 
  associated documentation is updated
  ... we need to require up to date documentation and a single 
  github repo to collect it
Heather Vescent: Tx
  ... and fix it there, rather than multiple locations.
Carl DiClementi: +1 Single location for documentation (current 
  spread across 3+ repo's / github orgs)
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  If we have a single github repo, better 
  centralized.
Manu Sporny: +1 On separate call
Orie Steele: +1 To centralizing JSON-LD Signatures documentation.
Joe Andrieu: +1 On our regular call one week
Kim Hamilton Duffy:   Give a +1 if you want separate call.
Joel Hartshorn: +1 On separate call
Carl DiClementi: +1 On separate call
Dave Longley: +1 On some kind of call on it
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Moving on the department of education report 
  out

Topic: Dept of EDU report out

Christopher Allen: (I’m on flight next week, but it isn’t 
  dependent on me)
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Blockchain in education touching on SSI.  
  Drummond and I presented, the focus was regarding socializing SSI 
  in education.
Manu Sporny: Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
  ... the education privacy regulation (lots of it) doesn't align 
  with the SSI principles.
Manu Sporny: 
  https://www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/guid/fpco/ferpa/index.html
  .... goal wasn't to make tech advancements, but discuss 
  requirements.  there was interest in adopting ideas and adopting 
  principles.  contextual identity.
  .... asking what the laws would look like and how it would 
  touch other verticals.
Drummond Reed:   Fabulous event!  the combination of SSI and 
  interesection with governance frameworks.
  ... family educational privacy act (FERPA). similar to GDPR 
  regarding what can be disclosed in education.
Juan Caballero: (Professors at liberal arts colleges know all 
  about it-- we used to joke that the regulation was passed to 
  protect us from the prying phone calls from parents!)
  ... we made a lot of progress in the knowledge in the 
  educational space.  kimhd should take a bow for her contribution. 
  huge opportunities in the space.
Kaliya Young: Kim was AMAZING at the event!
  ... big emphasis in life long learners.
Juan Caballero: :D
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  I'm working on adding some links on this 
  topic.  Time would be soon.  will pass on more info
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Topic credential issuer and API
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/102
Markus Sabadello:  Background the US government has been 
  mentioned (... and they are listening). introduces DHS and SVIP 
  program
  ... examples identity cards.   this work items is regarding the 
  Interoperability of different DID methods and should be 
  swappable.
  ... this is about preventing vendor lock-in
  ... this isn't about moving credentials ( like DIDCom or openID 
  connect), this is about internal API. if you want to be an issuer 
  what API do you call?
  ... what software component do you use.  there is a first draft 
  with feedback. there have been known weaknesses that have been 
  raised.
  ... feedback?
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  This has been proposed as a work item.  the 
  concern: are there any substative concerns?
John Jordan:  I would support a WG.  we have been working in this 
  model, our Aries cloud agent has been in this space and can share 
  our lessons learned.
John Jordan: 
  https://wiki.hyperledger.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=24780322
Markus Sabadello:   There are multiple companies that have made 
  progress and this is great.
John Jordan: Users group for Aries Cloud Agent - Python
Kim Hamilton Duffy:   I said WG but should be task group
John Jordan: Aries Cloud Agent - Python - 
  https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-cloudagent-python
John Jordan: PyPi - https://pypi.org/project/aries-cloudagent/
Kim Hamilton Duffy:   Discussing with co-chairs flow of work item
Markus Sabadello:  If you create a repo, i can move the work

Topic: Scribe tools issues

Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Moving on the scribe tool issues.
John Jordan: BFN ...
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/103
Kim Hamilton Duffy:   Everyone except manu seems to forget why 
  we're doing what we're doing
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Manu, should we try something else?
Manu Sporny:  Everyone would need space on w3c and may need to 
  request tooling for that.  we will lose recordings. we would gain 
  that other people can clean up the minutes.
  ... the script is broken in a simple way.  but the burden would 
  be on kimhd , everyone could submit the notes.  there is more 
  interest in zoom.
  ... pluses and minuses of moving to zoom.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:   If we move to zoom, we don't have the log.
Ted Thibodeau: Among other things with zoom -- someone would have 
  to pay.  free calls cut off after ~40 minutes, and there are user 
  count limits.
Manu Sporny:  No infrastructure for indexing in google, ect
Wayne Vaughn:   With zoom problems with firewall in china.
Carl DiClementi: Personal anecdote: I do not find it easy to 
  follow the minutes sent out via email in the current state. That 
  does not mean moving aware from the current tooling will improve 
  this scenario, just an observation.
Manu Sporny:  Someone is going to pick up the cost, current 
  digitalB pays.  concerned regarding accessibility needs. can use 
  IRC.  also cost with zoom.
Manu Sporny:   People want the text chat in zoom and queue 
  management.
Wayne Vaughn: Sip integration costs $50/mo
Wayne Vaughn: https://zoom.us/roomconnector
Jonathan Holt:  Possible to use SIP integration with zoom? (would 
  be additional cost) [scribe assist by Kim Hamilton Duffy]
Jonathan Holt:  ? Regarding SIP integration with zoom. but at a 
  cost.
Manu Sporny: Yes, lots of extra costs
Manu Sporny: And sip integration doesn't work for what we need it 
  for
Manu Sporny: We've tried :(
Manu Sporny: Next steps are talk w/ Ivan
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Other thoughts?
Juan Caballero: Thanks all
