[2020-01-14T17:05:12.762Z]	<jricher>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:05:37.070Z]	<Orie__Transmute_>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:05:55.818Z]	<markus_sabadello>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:06:12.277Z]	<joelh>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:06:21.773Z]	<Carl_DiClementi>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:06:24.363Z]	<drummond>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:06:27.605Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:06:28.212Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:06:48.424Z]	<rhiaro>	regrets+
[2020-01-14T17:06:57.232Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:07:08.010Z]	<kimhd_>	q?
[2020-01-14T17:07:11.263Z]	<kimhd_>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:07:12.848Z]	<Tom_S__USAA__>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:07:23.871Z]	<John_Jordan>	present +
[2020-01-14T17:07:32.126Z]	<kimhd_>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-01-14T17:07:41.042Z]	<kimhd_>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-01-14T17:07:48.433Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:07:51.633Z]	<kimhd_>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-01-14T17:08:00.411Z]	<gabec>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:08:01.479Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:08:05.160Z]	<kimhd_>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-01-14T17:08:28.260Z]	<gannan>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:08:35.032Z]	<sambarnes>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:08:56.268Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:09:12.899Z]	<kimhd_>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-01-14T17:09:26.742Z]	<Simone>	present +
[2020-01-14T17:09:35.230Z]	<jonathan_holt>	present+ jonathan_holt
[2020-01-14T17:10:08.544Z]	<trbouma>	present+ Tim Bouma, Dave Roberts - Government of Canada
[2020-01-14T17:10:29.464Z]	<juan_caballero>	present+ juan caballero, spherity GmbH, cannot scribe, on a terrible wifi connection !
[2020-01-14T17:10:42.440Z]	<dlongley>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:10:56.548Z]	<manu>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:11:00.761Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:11:14.574Z]	<jonathan_holt>	scribe: jonathan_holt
[2020-01-14T17:11:15.791Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:11:21.266Z]	<manu>	voip: noise?
[2020-01-14T17:11:45.671Z]	<kimhd_>	scribe: jonathan_holt
[2020-01-14T17:11:53.624Z]	<manu>	voip: noise?
[2020-01-14T17:12:15.927Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_ : introductions Daniel from Microsoft
[2020-01-14T17:12:45.844Z]	<kimhd_>	Simone Ravaoli from Digitary
[2020-01-14T17:13:01.372Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_ more introductions Simone
[2020-01-14T17:13:15.386Z]	<ken>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:13:19.291Z]	<AnthonyRonning>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:13:21.367Z]	<kimhd_>	joelh from usaa
[2020-01-14T17:13:38.641Z]	<kimhd_>	Riley Hughes from ??
[2020-01-14T17:13:45.640Z]	<rph_>	Riley from Streetcred ID
[2020-01-14T17:13:47.486Z]	<juan_caballero>	Street Cred !
[2020-01-14T17:14:00.343Z]	<John_Jordan>	Tomislav!
[2020-01-14T17:14:01.088Z]	<chrisboscolo>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:14:09.022Z]	<manu>	voip: noise?
[2020-01-14T17:14:59.741Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2020-01-14T17:15:20.662Z]	<kimhd_>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-01-14T17:15:48.282Z]	<heathervescent>	q+ For some announcements
[2020-01-14T17:16:22.902Z]	<kimhd_>	https://www.knowidentity.com/2020-conference/
[2020-01-14T17:16:27.054Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_ Anouncements F2F in amsterdam,
[2020-01-14T17:16:38.642Z]	<kimhd_>	https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxx-30-2020a-tickets-79016788341
[2020-01-14T17:16:55.704Z]	<kimhd_>	http://www.cvent.com/d/fhqnf3/4W
[2020-01-14T17:16:58.490Z]	<kimhd_>	q?
[2020-01-14T17:17:07.203Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://rwot10.eventbrite.com
[2020-01-14T17:17:13.769Z]	<kimhd_>	ack heathervescent
[2020-01-14T17:17:38.161Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Announcements and Reminders
[2020-01-14T17:17:40.488Z]	<jonathan_holt>	heathervescent: final report from DHS research was released today.
[2020-01-14T17:17:45.522Z]	<Orie__Transmute_>	link to report?
[2020-01-14T17:18:00.281Z]	<manu>	voip: noise?
[2020-01-14T17:18:13.323Z]	<juan_caballero>	https://bit.ly/GSCreport
[2020-01-14T17:18:13.882Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... State of decentralized ID survey.  taking the temperature
[2020-01-14T17:18:19.521Z]	<manu>	voip: mute 397
[2020-01-14T17:18:20.681Z]	<Carl_DiClementi>	seems like there is an echo from someone, please mute if you're not talking
[2020-01-14T17:18:33.581Z]	<heathervescent>	State of Decentralized Identity 2020 survey: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/SODI2020w3c
[2020-01-14T17:18:45.761Z]	<kimhd_>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-01-14T17:18:53.581Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Action Items
[2020-01-14T17:19:10.601Z]	<manu>	voip: unmute 397
[2020-01-14T17:19:17.441Z]	<manu>	voip: mute 397
[2020-01-14T17:19:20.050Z]	<kimhd_>	Need to host Schema for current JSON-LD Signatures
[2020-01-14T17:19:20.583Z]	<heathervescent>	Introducing Sensors, Identifiers, & Digital Twins Rep[ort link: https://bit.ly/GSCreport
[2020-01-14T17:19:25.881Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_: good work closing out issues. We have some JSON-LD issues not sure how to close
[2020-01-14T17:19:32.413Z]	<kimhd_>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/97
[2020-01-14T17:20:04.562Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... issue#97 need to host JSON-LD secure signature.
[2020-01-14T17:20:16.372Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu:  not much progress/no progress
[2020-01-14T17:20:31.713Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... low priority at present
[2020-01-14T17:21:02.561Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-01-14T17:21:09.227Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_: this is a digital signature issue.  we need to work together to get some more momentum.
[2020-01-14T17:21:16.081Z]	<kimhd_>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-01-14T17:21:31.648Z]	<jonathan_holt>	ChristopherA:  does anyone else have priority?
[2020-01-14T17:21:40.205Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q+
[2020-01-14T17:21:44.321Z]	<manu>	q+ we  have a good implementation.
[2020-01-14T17:22:03.969Z]	<jonathan_holt>	ChristopherA: anyway to work together?
[2020-01-14T17:22:33.890Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_ : point of order regarding background noise
[2020-01-14T17:22:53.706Z]	<manu>	voip: unmute 397
[2020-01-14T17:23:37.070Z]	<John_Jordan>	q?
[2020-01-14T17:23:59.710Z]	<kimhd_>	jonathan_holt: JSON-LD signatures --  it's about hosting schema.  not using in method but want to support. having problems parsing re rdf normalization
[2020-01-14T17:24:09.461Z]	<kimhd_>	ack jonathan_holt
[2020-01-14T17:24:26.274Z]	<Orie__Transmute_>	link to issues would be helpful, if you want comments from the group.
[2020-01-14T17:24:38.243Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu:  the difficulty is that everyone is asking for something different.  to be clear.  there is a reference implementation in JS.
[2020-01-14T17:24:51.031Z]	<markus_sabadello>	there's a work-in-progress LD signature implementation in Java: https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/ld-signatures-java
[2020-01-14T17:24:55.550Z]	<manu>	https://web-payments.org/contexts/security-v2.jsonld
[2020-01-14T17:25:01.501Z]	<Orie__Transmute_>	If you are interested in building Linked Data Signatures for any JOSE based JWS: https://github.com/transmute-industries/linked-data-signature-starter-kit
[2020-01-14T17:25:39.185Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... while there aren't reference implementation in your favorite language.  there need more work on the specs.
[2020-01-14T17:25:46.252Z]	<kimhd_>	q?
[2020-01-14T17:25:50.054Z]	<kimhd_>	ack manu
[2020-01-14T17:26:05.812Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... if you are deploying in JS then there are implementations there
[2020-01-14T17:26:15.285Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-01-14T17:26:25.181Z]	<kimhd_>	q+
[2020-01-14T17:26:39.861Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... we are moving forward, but need people to do the work.  need another call to discuss.
[2020-01-14T17:26:49.005Z]	<Orie__Transmute_>	q+ to propose solution for fixing documentation
[2020-01-14T17:26:57.025Z]	<kimhd_>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-01-14T17:27:42.387Z]	<jonathan_holt>	ChristopherA: keep running into people working on different implementation like C++ but are out of date or need extra stuff.  yes it is a documenation problem but disagree it is low priority.
[2020-01-14T17:28:31.969Z]	<dmitriz>	q+
[2020-01-14T17:28:42.508Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... perhaps updating examples, and point to the JS implementation and working examples to compare it against.  hard to point to and the larger exosystem is looking at JWT as an alternative.
[2020-01-14T17:28:56.171Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-01-14T17:29:09.691Z]	<dmitriz>	I'd love to hear specifics about which examples aren't working? the ld-signatures spec examples are up to date..
[2020-01-14T17:29:18.232Z]	<ChristopherA>	They donâ€™t do signatures
[2020-01-14T17:29:18.807Z]	<gannan>	Here is a link to the JS implementation https://github.com/digitalbazaar/jsonld-signatures
[2020-01-14T17:29:51.622Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_: we keep having github issues come up regarding JSON-LD, my concerns is that they aren't being filed away and addressed elsewhere.  do we need a new task force?
[2020-01-14T17:30:07.382Z]	<kimhd_>	ack kimhd_
[2020-01-14T17:30:17.121Z]	<dmitriz>	q-
[2020-01-14T17:30:34.563Z]	<kimhd_>	ack Orie__Transmute_
[2020-01-14T17:30:42.509Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Orie__Transmute_:  agree with ChristopherA, the challenge is there are a lot of documentation that are out of date and should be marked deprecated.
[2020-01-14T17:30:45.442Z]	<chriswinc>	voip: noise?
[2020-01-14T17:31:04.841Z]	<manu>	voip: mute 38dd
[2020-01-14T17:31:06.202Z]	<manu>	voip: mute 38d
[2020-01-14T17:31:10.324Z]	<heathervescent>	Someone is making a lot of background noise.
[2020-01-14T17:31:13.892Z]	<manu>	voip: unmute 38d
[2020-01-14T17:31:16.221Z]	<manu>	voip: noise?
[2020-01-14T17:31:25.590Z]	<manu>	voip: mute 386
[2020-01-14T17:31:37.762Z]	<Carl_DiClementi>	+1 a task / feature is *incomplete* until all associated documentation is updated
[2020-01-14T17:31:40.544Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... we need to require up to date documentation and a single github repo to collect it
[2020-01-14T17:31:47.929Z]	<heathervescent>	Tx
[2020-01-14T17:31:59.205Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... and fix it there, rather than multiple locations.
[2020-01-14T17:32:18.491Z]	<Carl_DiClementi>	+1 single location for documentation (current spread across 3+ repo's / github orgs)
[2020-01-14T17:32:21.946Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_: if we have a single github repo, better centralized.
[2020-01-14T17:32:30.246Z]	<manu>	+1 on separate call
[2020-01-14T17:32:39.169Z]	<Orie__Transmute_>	+1 to centralizing JSON-LD Signatures documentation.
[2020-01-14T17:32:41.667Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	+1 on our regular call one week
[2020-01-14T17:32:45.493Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_ :  give a +1 if you want separate call.
[2020-01-14T17:32:51.702Z]	<joelh>	+1 on separate call
[2020-01-14T17:32:58.001Z]	<Carl_DiClementi>	+1 on separate call
[2020-01-14T17:33:02.650Z]	<dlongley>	+1 on some kind of call on it
[2020-01-14T17:33:11.031Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_ : moving on the department of education report out
[2020-01-14T17:33:11.720Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Dept of EDU report out
[2020-01-14T17:33:19.892Z]	<ChristopherA>	(Iâ€™m on flight next week, but it isnâ€™t dependent on me)
[2020-01-14T17:34:13.141Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_: blockchain in education touching on SSI.  Drummond and I presented, the focus was regarding socializing SSI in education.
[2020-01-14T17:34:29.461Z]	<manu>	Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
[2020-01-14T17:34:49.201Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... the education privacy regulation (lots of it) doesn't align with the SSI principles.
[2020-01-14T17:34:59.621Z]	<manu>	https://www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/guid/fpco/ferpa/index.html
[2020-01-14T17:35:50.182Z]	<jonathan_holt>	.... goal wasn't to make tech advancements, but discuss requirements.  there was interest in adopting ideas and adopting principles.  contextual identity.
[2020-01-14T17:36:27.881Z]	<jonathan_holt>	.... asking what the laws would look like and how it would touch other verticals.
[2020-01-14T17:37:11.882Z]	<jonathan_holt>	drummond:  fabulous event!  the combination of SSI and interesection with governance frameworks.
[2020-01-14T17:37:59.945Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... family educational privacy act (FEPA). similar to GDPR regarding what can be disclosed in education.
[2020-01-14T17:38:21.021Z]	<jonathan_holt>	s/FEPA/FERPA
[2020-01-14T17:39:07.862Z]	<juan_caballero>	(professors at liberal arts colleges know all about it-- we used to joke that the regulation was passed to protect us from the prying phone calls from parents!)
[2020-01-14T17:39:08.143Z]	<IdentityWoman>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:39:09.462Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... we made a lot of progress in the knowledge in the educational space.  kimhd_ should take a bow for her contribution. huge opportunities in the space.
[2020-01-14T17:39:19.802Z]	<IdentityWoman>	Kim was AMAZING at the event!
[2020-01-14T17:39:26.322Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... big emphasis in life long learners.
[2020-01-14T17:39:31.001Z]	<juan_caballero>	:D
[2020-01-14T17:40:33.570Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_: i'm working on adding some links on this topic.  Time would be soon.  will pass on more info
[2020-01-14T17:40:35.562Z]	<kimhd_>	q?
[2020-01-14T17:41:02.849Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_: topic credential issuer and API
[2020-01-14T17:41:07.628Z]	<kimhd_>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/102
[2020-01-14T17:42:33.012Z]	<jonathan_holt>	markus_sabadello: background the US government has been mentioned (... and they are listening). introduces DHS and SVIP program
[2020-01-14T17:43:34.632Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... examples identity cards.   this work items is regarding the Interoperability of different DID methods and should be swappable.
[2020-01-14T17:44:00.682Z]	<John_Jordan>	q=
[2020-01-14T17:44:02.868Z]	<John_Jordan>	q+
[2020-01-14T17:44:04.343Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... this is about preventing vendor lock-in
[2020-01-14T17:45:22.164Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... this isn't about moving credentials ( like DIDCom or openID connect), this is about internal API. if you want to be an issuer what API do you call?
[2020-01-14T17:46:13.323Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... what software component do you use.  there is a first draft with feedback. there have been known weaknesses that have been raised.
[2020-01-14T17:46:30.646Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... feedback?
[2020-01-14T17:46:59.343Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_: this has been proposed as a work item.  the concern: are there any substative concerns?
[2020-01-14T17:47:12.006Z]	<markus_sabadello>	ack John_Jordan
[2020-01-14T17:47:13.481Z]	<kimhd_>	ack John_Jordan
[2020-01-14T17:48:02.245Z]	<jonathan_holt>	John_Jordan: i would support a WG.  we have been working in this model, our Aries cloud agent has been in this space and can share our lessons learned.
[2020-01-14T17:48:24.552Z]	<John_Jordan>	https://wiki.hyperledger.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=24780322
[2020-01-14T17:48:27.681Z]	<jonathan_holt>	markus_sabadello:  there are multiple companies that have made progress and this is great.
[2020-01-14T17:48:34.604Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q?
[2020-01-14T17:48:43.707Z]	<John_Jordan>	Users group for Aries Cloud Agent - Python
[2020-01-14T17:48:48.044Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2020-01-14T17:48:55.742Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_:  i said WG but should be task group
[2020-01-14T17:49:00.284Z]	<John_Jordan>	Aries Cloud Agent - Python - https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-cloudagent-python
[2020-01-14T17:49:24.222Z]	<John_Jordan>	PyPi - https://pypi.org/project/aries-cloudagent/
[2020-01-14T17:49:34.774Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_:  discussing with co-chairs flow of work item
[2020-01-14T17:50:04.310Z]	<jonathan_holt>	markus_sabadello: if you create a repo, i can move the work
[2020-01-14T17:50:46.847Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Scribe tools issues
[2020-01-14T17:50:47.468Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_: moving on the scribe tool issues.
[2020-01-14T17:51:08.342Z]	<John_Jordan>	BFN ...
[2020-01-14T17:51:08.753Z]	<kimhd_>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/103
[2020-01-14T17:51:42.489Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_:  every one except manu seem lost.  perhaps we should move to another tool?
[2020-01-14T17:52:20.470Z]	<kimhd_>	q?
[2020-01-14T17:52:23.005Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-01-14T17:52:27.112Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... correction
[2020-01-14T17:53:03.441Z]	<TallTed>	s/every one except manu seem lost/everyone except manu seems to forget why we're doing what we're doing/
[2020-01-14T17:53:18.583Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_: manu, should we try something else?
[2020-01-14T17:54:08.471Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu: everyone would need space on w3c and may need to request tooling for that.  we will lose recordings. we would gain that other people can clean up the minutes.
[2020-01-14T17:55:43.787Z]	<wayne>	q+
[2020-01-14T17:55:59.927Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... the script is broken in a simple way.  but the burden would be on kimhd_ , everyone could submit the notes.  there is more interest in zoom.
[2020-01-14T17:56:47.267Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... pluses and minuses of moving to zoom.
[2020-01-14T17:57:03.732Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_ :  if we move to zoom, we don't have the log.
[2020-01-14T17:57:14.251Z]	<TallTed>	among other things with zoom -- someone would have to pay.  free calls cut off after ~40 minutes, and there are user count limits.
[2020-01-14T17:57:18.821Z]	<kimhd_>	q?
[2020-01-14T17:57:21.502Z]	<kimhd_>	ack manu
[2020-01-14T17:57:24.087Z]	<kimhd_>	ack wayne
[2020-01-14T17:57:26.942Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu: no infrastructure for indexing in google, ect
[2020-01-14T17:57:44.233Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-01-14T17:57:46.621Z]	<jonathan_holt>	wayne:  with zoom problems with firewall in china.
[2020-01-14T17:58:07.402Z]	<kimhd_>	q?
[2020-01-14T17:58:44.444Z]	<Carl_DiClementi>	personal anecdote: I do not find it easy to follow the minutes sent out via email in the current state. That does not mean moving aware from the current tooling will improve this scenario, just an observation.
[2020-01-14T17:59:40.722Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu: someone is going to pick up the cost, current digitalB pays.  concerned regarding accessibility needs. can use IRC.  also cost with zoom.
[2020-01-14T17:59:40.765Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q+
[2020-01-14T18:00:23.460Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu:  people want the text chat in zoom and queue management.
[2020-01-14T18:00:24.073Z]	<kimhd_>	q?
[2020-01-14T18:00:28.665Z]	<kimhd_>	ack manu
[2020-01-14T18:00:35.244Z]	<kimhd_>	ack jonathan_holt
[2020-01-14T18:00:45.882Z]	<wayne>	sip integration costs $50/mo
[2020-01-14T18:00:56.621Z]	<wayne>	https://zoom.us/roomconnector
[2020-01-14T18:01:09.142Z]	<kimhd_>	jonathan_holt: possible to use SIP integration with zoom? (would be additional cost)
[2020-01-14T18:01:24.891Z]	<jonathan_holt>	jonathan_holt: ? regarding SIP integration with zoom. but at a cost.
[2020-01-14T18:01:31.428Z]	<manu>	yes, lots of extra costs
[2020-01-14T18:01:51.064Z]	<manu>	and sip integration doesn't work for what we need it for
[2020-01-14T18:01:54.401Z]	<kimhd_>	q?
[2020-01-14T18:01:55.301Z]	<manu>	we've tried :(
[2020-01-14T18:02:01.833Z]	<manu>	Next steps are talk w/ Ivan
[2020-01-14T18:02:06.863Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kimhd_: other thoughts?
[2020-01-14T18:02:40.909Z]	<juan_caballero>	thanks all
[2020-01-14T18:03:03.937Z]	<manu>	voip: connections?
[2020-01-14T18:03:20.141Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 38b
[2020-01-14T18:03:25.765Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 395
[2020-01-14T18:03:25.911Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 39c
