Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-06-20-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-06-20-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-06-20

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jun&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io)
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Russell Hofvendahl, Orie Steele, Ben, TallTed // 
  Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Chris Abernethy, Yinghui 
  (Vivien) Fan, Ted Thibodeau, Paul Dietrich GS1

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): I can do I have a few peers so 
  that might be spotty the records there.
russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/813
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/814
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/815
Nis Jespersen : +1
Nis Jespersen :  Trace-vocab
Orie Steele:  815, Attempts to clarify reqs on trace 
  presentations, implements simple way of,, a prez meant to replace 
  previous presentation.
Nis Jespersen :  Chris, ok with that approach?
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah makes sense
Orie Steele:  Also on a bit of a clock, goal to discuss on next 
  meeting
Nis Jespersen :  Agree, on issue first?
Orie Steele:  Helps to just open PR, share pics, describe what 
  will do
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/817
Nis Jespersen :  Next 817 from me. would like approvals to merge 
  out of band, if looks right.
Orie Steele:  IRIs different but can be resolved separately
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/818
Nis Jespersen :  Last, ben
Ben: getting feedback from usmca cred. This changes order, 
  reflect what doc loooks like originally. This does it for us 
  exporter, importer, and made minor changes to flags
Orie Steele:  [...] Json schema preserves order. They don't have 
  prop that json-ld has. yaml will maintain order, and if json-ld 
  need order can annotate that order is important
Ted Thibodeau:  I'll take your word, ok
Nis Jespersen :  Merging
Orie Steele:  Suggested updates, aligns data with content
Orie Steele:  Want to def shape for trace presentation,m but you 
  defined workflow file. let's sink online, later
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/559
Nis Jespersen :  Interop, rev2021, first 559, russell
Russell Hofvendahl:  This changes tutorial
Orie Steele:  Doesn't test multiple status lists
Russell Hofvendahl:  Separate PR
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/560
Russell Hofvendahl:  Tests support both, openapi only 2021
Orie Steele:  Time to get started experiencing; want to have 
  multiple implementations passing 2021, then remove 2020
Nis Jespersen :  Good, two approvals, objections?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/561
Russell Hofvendahl:  Changes single conformance suite postman 
  collection file, same story
Nis Jespersen :  Ok, 3 approvals, merging
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/567
<orie> link?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/573
Nis Jespersen :  That's it on PRs, on to vocab issues
Orie Steele:  Still needs to be done. every time @type & points 
  to not great, destroy value of json vocab. If don't do good job 
  here, get bad graph data, undermines point of rdf in first place
Nis Jespersen :  Ben, assigned? oh, dropped, keep him assigned 
  then
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/576
Ben: back
Nis Jespersen :  Look at 573 make sure to
Orie Steele:  Applies to tooling not to repo I think
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/369
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/690
Nis Jespersen :  Great.Next, 369 ecommerce files, old, closing
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/462
Nis Jespersen :  462, Ben, assigned to mahmoud. ben?
Ben want to close this. back when we were doing more common & 
  grouping things, what class does this refer to. We've been 
  switching toward direct doc & using context
Nis Jespersen :  Inlining we've been doing, seems moot point
Nis Jespersen :  I'll comment but ben your ticket, you suggest we 
  don't need this anymore?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/700
Ben: will comment
Nis Jespersen :  700, Adding section on gs1
Paul: happy to do it if assigned
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/701
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/702
Nis Jespersen :  Thanks, great.
Paul: what does this mean for gs1 creds?
Nis Jespersen :  Good point, similar to one before
<chris_abernethy> Didn't Orie just make a PR saying that this 
  wasn't possible?
Paul: not something we do today. being gs1 like to use gdtis for 
  doc id'fiers, not married to that just curious
Nis Jespersen :  Making note on issue
Chris Abernethy:  Wasn't orie's pr from earlier abt
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/577
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/271
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/578
Nis Jespersen :  Yes, can't say if breaks what you just said, but 
  let's fix that if problem
Chris Abernethy: +1 To Ted's comment
Ted Thibodeau:  If only ever have one or other in realworld, 
  would do that, could in comment mention the alternate attribute 
  and/or have two examples (i.e., one with each attribute)
Ben: pointing out we have two possibilities of examples. One is 
  in bottom combined cred, other is in yaml part. can have ex for 
  each in yaml, with one realistic in json bottom of file.
Nis Jespersen :  If we were to start using, need to agree on how. 
  One fill everything out, other to look realistic?
Ben: in schema, here's descr locode, here's ex value, here's port 
  code, here ex value. independent of each other I think.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/270
Nis Jespersen :  Assigning self
Chris Abernethy:  I agree, orie called out second to last, but 
  vlad don't think will. you're right we need this, don't think we 
  can assign vlad.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/575
Yinghui (Vivien) Fan: :+1:
Nis Jespersen :  Making note to vladimir
