[2023-06-20T17:32:42.188Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-06-20T17:32:44.398Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-06-20T17:32:48.555Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-06-20T17:32:49.825Z]	<Ben>	present+
[2023-06-20T17:32:52.745Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-06-20T17:33:41.959Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-06-20T17:35:00.561Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-06-20T17:35:25.674Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-06-20T17:35:25.674Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-06-20T17:35:33.546Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): I can do I have a few peers so that might be spotty the records there.
[2023-06-20T17:35:49.903Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2023-06-20T17:36:04.744Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2023-06-20T17:36:18.805Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/813
[2023-06-20T17:37:43.061Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2023-06-20T17:37:44.076Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/814
[2023-06-20T17:38:46.960Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/815
[2023-06-20T17:39:29.927Z]	<nis>	+1
[2023-06-20T17:41:00.243Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: trace-vocab

PR 813, based on feedback from industry, some changes to multimodal bol

concerns, comments, approvals?

merging

next, 814, cbp port code. specific to US, cbp code belongs under cbp port.

Mike asked how to link up with other docs, already done in industry so just replicating how already done

Objections? merging
[2023-06-20T17:41:06.963Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: 815, attempts to clarify reqs on trace presentations, implements simple way of,, a prez meant to replace previous presentation.

Best path fwd to merge then open PR to implement more advanced changes. There's a proposal to add support for json patch, will affect interactions on json graph, happy to do work but in separate PR If we want json patch, open second pr replacing this with json patch, compare complexity cost. Nice to review side by side, simple vs complicated.
[2023-06-20T17:41:17.105Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: chris, ok with that approach?
[2023-06-20T17:41:23.432Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: yeah makes sense
[2023-06-20T17:41:58.626Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: also on a bit of a clock, goal to discuss on next meeting
[2023-06-20T17:42:04.473Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: agree, on issue first?
[2023-06-20T17:42:30.480Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: helps to just open PR, share pics, describe what will do

Will get PR ready put images, text, so can discuss on PR
[2023-06-20T17:42:31.473Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/817
[2023-06-20T17:43:23.492Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: next 817 from me. would like approvals to merge out of band, if looks right.

Did resolve your thing Orie
[2023-06-20T17:43:39.602Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: IRIs different but can be resolved separately
[2023-06-20T17:44:05.044Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/818
[2023-06-20T17:44:05.339Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: last, ben
[2023-06-20T17:44:41.553Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: getting feedback from usmca cred. This changes order, reflect what doc loooks like originally. This does it for us exporter, importer, and made minor changes to flags
[2023-06-20T17:46:01.616Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: [...] json schema preserves order. They don't have prop that json-ld has. yaml will maintain order, and if json-ld need order can annotate that order is important
[2023-06-20T17:46:09.776Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ted: I'll take your word, ok
[2023-06-20T17:46:53.732Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: merging

& quick, back on 817?
[2023-06-20T17:47:25.407Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: suggested updates, aligns data with content

Looking at workflow class, that they're agreeing doesn't change that obj isn't req'd and this PR has no effect
[2023-06-20T17:47:53.540Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: want to def shape for trace presentation,m but you defined workflow file. let's sink online, later
[2023-06-20T17:48:01.134Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	present+
[2023-06-20T17:48:44.082Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2023-06-20T17:48:52.912Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/559
[2023-06-20T17:49:04.522Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: interop, rev2021, first 559, russell
[2023-06-20T17:51:08.397Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	russell: this changes tutorial
[2023-06-20T17:51:19.913Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: doesn't test multiple status lists
[2023-06-20T17:51:23.850Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	russell: separate PR
[2023-06-20T17:51:30.295Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/560
[2023-06-20T17:52:19.975Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	russell: tests support both, openapi only 2021
[2023-06-20T17:52:47.399Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: time to get started experiencing; want to have multiple implementations passing 2021, then remove 2020
[2023-06-20T17:54:31.047Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: good, two approvals, objections?

mahmoud still has objections, let's merge later if get his approval
[2023-06-20T17:54:48.972Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/561
[2023-06-20T17:55:13.277Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	russell: changes single conformance suite postman collection file, same story
[2023-06-20T17:55:20.188Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: ok, 3 approvals, merging
[2023-06-20T17:55:40.236Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-06-20T17:55:50.557Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/567
[2023-06-20T17:56:53.647Z]	<Orie>	link?
[2023-06-20T17:56:55.938Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/573
[2023-06-20T17:57:19.136Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: that's it on PRs, on to vocab issues

first 567, vladimir, ready for PR

Think we've done this, certainly fixed a lot of the workflows, suggest we close it

Next, avoid schema.org datatypes
[2023-06-20T17:57:57.577Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: still needs to be done. every time @type & points to not great, destroy value of json vocab. If don't do good job here, get bad graph data, undermines point of rdf in first place
[2023-06-20T17:58:12.623Z]	<Ben>	present+
[2023-06-20T17:58:32.713Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: ben, assigned? oh, dropped, keep him assigned then

Pinging Ben
[2023-06-20T17:58:51.373Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/576
[2023-06-20T17:58:53.425Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: back
[2023-06-20T17:59:12.509Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: look at 573 make sure to

576
[2023-06-20T18:00:29.252Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: applies to tooling not to repo I think

Complains @id @type.

[...] I'd crosslink them, close both at same time. I'll have to drop but lmk if I can help
[2023-06-20T18:00:37.726Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/369
[2023-06-20T18:01:07.089Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/690
[2023-06-20T18:02:27.534Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: great.Next, 369 ecommerce files, old, closing

690 un schema adoption potential. Doesn't seem like actually doing this. seems value in starting fresh, want to close
[2023-06-20T18:02:27.948Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/462
[2023-06-20T18:02:48.736Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 462, ben, assigned to mahmoud. ben?
[2023-06-20T18:03:27.976Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben want to close this. back when we were doing more common & grouping things, what class does this refer to. We've been switching toward direct doc & using context
[2023-06-20T18:03:44.724Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: inlining we've been doing, seems moot point
[2023-06-20T18:04:30.255Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: I'll comment but ben your ticket, you suggest we don't need this anymore?
[2023-06-20T18:04:32.203Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/700
[2023-06-20T18:04:34.551Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: will comment
[2023-06-20T18:05:09.237Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 700, adding section on gs1

Paul, opinions?
[2023-06-20T18:05:16.995Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Paul: happy to do it if assigned
[2023-06-20T18:05:54.168Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/701
[2023-06-20T18:06:46.382Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/702
[2023-06-20T18:07:34.455Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: thanks, great.

701, trace context should not be mandatory. fixed already, we req'd trace and gs1 creds don't have trace. so changed.

next 702, aligning our two repos, seems worthwhile, takers?
[2023-06-20T18:07:51.193Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	paul: what does this mean for gs1 creds?
[2023-06-20T18:08:02.206Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: good point, similar to one before
[2023-06-20T18:08:07.995Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Didn't Orie just make a PR saying that this wasn't possible?
[2023-06-20T18:08:35.324Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	paul: not something we do today. being gs1 like to use gdtis for doc id'fiers, not married to that just curious
[2023-06-20T18:09:24.805Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: making note on issue

Doesn't belong on this issue, aligning two repos, belongs on specs

let's look thru normative spec, see if anything breaking
[2023-06-20T18:09:39.099Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: wasn't orie's pr from earlier abt
[2023-06-20T18:10:06.163Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/577
[2023-06-20T18:12:09.620Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/271
[2023-06-20T18:14:36.519Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/578
[2023-06-20T18:15:46.863Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	q+
[2023-06-20T18:15:55.257Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: yes, can't say if breaks what you just said, but let's fix that if problem

On to 577, vlad. want instead of str wants enum, error.

Not a bad suggestion, guess I'll do this, self-assigning

Next, 271, anyone remember what's abt?

[...]

Self assigning to remove schema/purchase

578, unlocode, iataairportcode for place.

Question for group, how do we thinkof realism in examnples? IMO wouldn't have unlocode and airportcode, either/or.

I try to do realistic, so some attrs not represented
[2023-06-20T18:15:57.895Z]	<nis>	ack ted
[2023-06-20T18:16:18.172Z]	<Ben>	q+
[2023-06-20T18:16:18.524Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	+1 to Ted's comment
[2023-06-20T18:16:23.469Z]	<nis>	ack ben
[2023-06-20T18:16:23.647Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ted: If only ever have one or other in realworld, would do that, could in comment say "have two examples"
[2023-06-20T18:16:27.046Z]	<Ben>	q-
[2023-06-20T18:17:07.720Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: pointing out we have two possibilities of examples. One is in bottom combined cred, other is in yaml part. can have ex for each in yaml, with one realistic in json bottom of file.
[2023-06-20T18:17:36.390Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: if we were to start using, need to agree on how. One fill everything out, other to look realistic?
[2023-06-20T18:17:46.711Z]	<TallTed>	s/in comment say "have two examples"/in comment mention the alternate attribute and/or have two examples (i.e., one with each attribute)/
[2023-06-20T18:18:33.908Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: in schema, here's descr locode, here's ex value, here's port code, here ex value. independent of each other I think.
[2023-06-20T18:19:02.549Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/270
[2023-06-20T18:20:53.285Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q+
[2023-06-20T18:21:06.550Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: assigning self

270, wrong $linkedData mapping: props vs classes

high level agree that sloppy. So related documents is property referring to Purchase. Would be nice to get full list.

There are a lot of these errors, no doubt abt it needs to be approved
[2023-06-20T18:21:11.433Z]	<nis>	ack chris
[2023-06-20T18:21:42.323Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	q-
[2023-06-20T18:21:52.049Z]	<nis>	q?
[2023-06-20T18:22:02.568Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: I agree, orie called out second to last, but vlad don't think will. you're right we need this, don't think we can assign vlad.
[2023-06-20T18:23:04.632Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/575
[2023-06-20T18:25:27.646Z]	<vivien>	:+1:
[2023-06-20T18:27:21.783Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: making note to vladimir

575, conflation of value. [...] also I don't think it's www.

I tried to assign this to, vivien ok if I take this? need more specific def, which does exist, probably on schema.org

3mins before end of meeting, want time for minutes, stopping now, great meeting
