Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-10-23-vc-education/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-10-23-vc-education/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2023-10-23.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC for Education Task Force Transcript for 2023-10-23

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2023Oct/0003.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions
  2. Headless Wallets, Delegation
Organizer:
  Kerri Lemoie, Simone Ravaioli, Dmitri Zagidulin
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Dmitri Zagidulin, Charles E. Lehner, Hiroyuki Sano, Japan, Mahesh 
  Balan - pocketcred com, Stuart Freeman, Adrian Gropper, Susan 
  Stroud, Adam (Tangle Labs), Nis Jespersen , Jeff O - HumanOS, 
  Geun-Hyung, Naomi, Simone Ravaoli, PL/T3-ASU, Colin Reynolds, Ed 
  Design Lab, Kerri Lemoie, Keith Kowal, Andy Griebel, Chandi 
  Cumaranatunge, David Ward, Kaliya Young

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Hello hello welcome everyone to this week's VC 
  Edu call going to give another minute for people to connect and 
  we'll get started.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right it's three minutes past the hour 
  let's get started so once again welcome everyone to the weekly VC 
  edu call Quick IP note anyone can participate in these calls if 
  you want to make a substantive contribution to any CG work item 
  or spec you do need to be a member of the community group and you 
  do need to sign the VIP our agreement so if you're not a member 
  yet please let us know.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I've notes the call is recorded notes an audio 
  recording will be made available on ccg GitHub we use jitsi for 
  queuing so just as well as IRC so either you can type Q Plus so 
  letter q and plus in chat or just raise your hand and I'll put 
  you on the cube.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Next stop introductions and reintroductions.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Does do we have anybody new here on the call 
  that wants to introduce themselves.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I Christoph go ahead.

Topic: Introductions

Christoph_Graf_(switch.ch): Now I'm on okay welcome so my name is 
  Christoph I'm working for the national research and education 
  network of Switzerland in Europe we are particularly interested 
  in adding value to our universities and in particular support 
  processes between them that's why we are working together with 
  them for two decades now for federating identity systems and we 
  regard SSI as the next big thing in identity world.
Christoph_Graf_(switch.ch):  that's why we are interested in SSI 
  being rude.
Christoph_Graf_(switch.ch): We are collaborating with our 
  colleagues here in Europe and with the participation in d.c. at 
  we want to get the picture of also outside of Europe that's it.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Adrian go ahead.
<kerri_lemoie> Hi All!
Adrian Gropper:  I'm Adrian proper I don't remember if I ever 
  join VC edu it would have been many years ago and I don't attend 
  regularly my particular interest is in protocols for handling 
  verifiable credentials my use case is not education but it's 
  close to it it's in health care and in particular I'm curious to 
  see if.
Adrian Gropper:   There's traction for.
Adrian Gropper:  Ietf standards and you ietf standards workgroup 
  for delegated delegated access to credentials and delegation as a 
  way of controlling access and use of credentials thank you.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Welcome Adrian glad to have you here and 
  there's definitely a lot of overlap between Healthcare and 
  education in terms of use cases anybody else want to do 
  introductions and reintroductions.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right on that case let's move on to 
  announcements and reminders does anybody have announcements for 
  upcoming events or any sort of community announcements Adam go 
  ahead.
Adam_(Tangle_Labs): Thank you Dimitri for those of you don't know 
  I'm Adam I'm one of the founders over at Tango labs in Germany 
  and I just want to let everybody know that we've just launched 
  the public beta of our new identity wallet Vero we welcome anyone 
  to give it a go we appreciate any feedback we've got a demo live 
  the you can play about with its part of the UNESCO lifelong 
  learning project the N NG D IL that we've been working on.
Adam_(Tangle_Labs):  and yeah I'll also drop links to the.
Adam_(Tangle_Labs): Downloads for Apple test flight Google Play 
  just so everybody knows where you we're kind of working towards 
  the I'd us 2.0 regulations and the EU DIY Walla off so w 3C D ID 
  and VC data model standards well-known didd open ID for VC and 
  all that and we opted for d i d key as the method to keep it 
  clean and simple at this stage but the backend does support 
  multi-method so.
Adam_(Tangle_Labs):  in the future we're hoping to.
<naomi> Hello, everyone - I have to be on mute today, but I would 
  like to invite everyone to the upcoming Velocity Ed Cluster 
  Launch Event (Part 1 & Part 2)... this is an open, free, online 
  event -- pls join us! Please find your invitation here and 
  register for the two webinars via these links: 
Adam_(Tangle_Labs): Methods and blockchains but we'd appreciate 
  any feedback we respect peer feedback that as much if not more 
  then then I use a feedback so yeah please give it a go and rip it 
  to pieces.
<adam_(tangle_labs)> Tangle Labs links:
<naomi> Link to events:
https://www.velocitynetwork.foundation/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Velocity-Education-Ecosystem-Launch-Event-1.pdf
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I'm glad to have more entrants in the 
  ecosystem yeah please please post a link in chat and and we'll 
  check it out Naomi in chat.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Says she has to be on mute today but would 
  like to invite everyone to the upcoming velocity Ed cluster 
  launch Event open free online event.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And I think the invitation got the invitation 
  is in chat so everyone feel free to sign up anyone else with 
  announcements.
<simone_ravaioli> The SkillsFWD RFP is published and responses 
  due on Nov. 8th https://www.skillsfwd.org/
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right David let's move on to our next our 
  main topic which is we wanted to see if anybody wanted to give 
  report outs or share impressions of this past internet of Dandy 
  Workshop in addition we had the jmf plugfest the third iteration 
  of it the day before IW so we wanted to see if anybody wanted to 
  share impressions of the plugfest.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It's we also wanted to open up the floor to 
  any other questions and discussions.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So let's start let's start with the jmf 
  plugfest since it was.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  First chronologically also this was for those 
  not familiar jmf is jobs for the Future Foundation nonprofits in 
  the area of education and this particular team led by Sharon Liu 
  is charged with.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Bridging and creating interoperability between 
  learner wallets.
<simone_ravaioli> For those who were not able to join PlugFest3, 
  the recording of the day is available for viewing here:
Dmitri Zagidulin:  In the verifiable credential ecosystem in 
  education so the series of interoperability plugfest have been 
  let's encourage the wallet Community to interoperate in these 
  bite-sized steps so the first interrupt plugfest tested their 
  fiber credential display the second tested issuing of credentials 
  into a wallet.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  One focused on again on wallets but focused on 
  verifiers and relying parties requesting credentials from wallets 
  so the verifier had to request multiple credentials the wallet.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Demonstrate user being able to acknowledging 
  the request selecting the credentials and returning them to the 
  the verifier to the relying party.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So any questions about plugfest in general or 
  does anybody want to share their thoughts and Impressions if they 
  participated.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Simona go ahead.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks about yeah so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  While x amount of mentioned one of the great 
  things that sort of resulted from from this series of interrupts 
  is the development of these verifiable credential playgrounds and 
  if anybody has the link handy please post them in chat but it's 
  the VC playground which was originally the chappy playground and 
  in addition matter developed a VC playgrounds and several other.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Vendors develop them as well and the nice 
  thing about these.
https://vcplayground.org/
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The site's is they allow.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The vendor that is compliant with either the 
  VC API specification credential Handler API or the open ID for 
  verifiable presentation.
Simone Ravaoli: https://launchpad.mattrlabs.com/
Dmitri Zagidulin:  As I think a lot of you are aware currently in 
  the community we have at least three different camps of or 
  families of apis that while it implementers are implementing one 
  being VC edu which is incubated here in the ccg the second one 
  being open ID for family of specs that are committed in open ID 
  foundation and the third one being.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   It'd come.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  From the hyper legendaries community and so 
  these playgrounds allow anybody who's an issuer or verifier to 
  essentially add themselves to a list and then a wallet user can 
  come to the site and either issue credentials or request 
  credentials using any one of those issues are very fires so so 
  similar to the your wish has already come true it is already 
  available as.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   As as apis right so they say.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The standard apis there is a manual step to 
  get added to the list right you do have to email the the 
  maintainers but aside from that it is already plug and play and 
  anybody can use it.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Let's see Adrian go ahead I'll wait I'm sorry 
  sorry one second I think Sal was first so that's out.
Charles E. Lehner:  Hello can you hear me.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yes are you little bit quiet but we can hear 
  you.
Charles E. Lehner:  Okay I just wanted to mention the other 
  there's also discussion of DIDComm for a playground use this was 
  mentioned in the VC API work item call and I think Patrick and 
  Brian were discussing this with Manu that's it.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Oh that's really exciting yeah it would be 
  really great to see DIDComm to the third API family to 
  participate to be able to work with those playgrounds thanks 
  thanks Charles.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Adrian go ahead.
Adrian Gropper:  So are you mentioned three or four alternatives 
  for dealing with wallets and I'm curious since I don't 
  participate in that in those things directly how do any of them 
  consider the separation between a personal agent in the cloud as 
  a wallet and a mobile biometric.
Adrian Gropper:   The user agent.
Adrian Gropper:  As a wallet and how these two would would both 
  be accommodated.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Adrian a great question so there's a 
  couple thoughts there so both yes and no no in the sense of the 
  API to request the credential or API to issue credential is 
  slightly on a different level of abstraction it's a different 
  layer sorry then.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The sort of .
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Difference between a wallet or a user agent 
  however we so as well Community we've definitely had some 
  challenges.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Handling both mobile wallets interoperability 
  and web-based wallet and so at this point in time what we've seen 
  evolved is so the credential Handler API is now able to handle 
  both native wallets and web wallets right so if I'm if I'm 
  browsing on my mobile device in a mobile browser and I hit a 
  credential Handler API compatible site.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Site I can push a button and it actually.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I've registered wallet app specifically 
  registered by the user so the user is said I'm going to use this 
  app by default or in general just add this one to the list of my 
  wallets so that the browser does know how to communicate with the 
  mobile apps same thing with the browser to web wallet that's in 
  VC API land in OpenID connect lands there is again.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Support for both mobile and web wallets mobile 
  via either QR codes or the custom open ID protocol and web 
  wallets used via the usual redirect and I believe that come has 
  similar mechanisms that I'm not as familiar with those so does 
  that answer your question so both are supported.
Adrian Gropper:  Well it it answers the question to some extent 
  when when the transaction has the user directly involved but it 
  doesn't sound like it can deal with the user's agent as being 
  semi-autonomous or delegated to some other entity or both is that 
  a correct conclusion on my.
Adrian Gropper:   A part.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So not quite that's that's interesting so 
  there's been some discussion on the mailing list about.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  What we've termed headless wallets which I 
  think is the closest thing to the delegated agents that you're 
  describing right so the idea being.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  User delegates some subset of permissions or 
  abilities to the wall and then the wallet can act on the user's 
  behalf sort of unattended is that right is that what you're 
  asking.
Adrian Gropper:  Yeah it's in the wallet is basically an 
  authorization server so it's a policy it has a policy component 
  and potentially even a machine learning component for those 
  policies and there and it is able to send you know in certain 
  cases based on Policy Act on the on behalf of the subject.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Got it got it yeah so while the main API 
  families do support that mode we haven't seen a lot of that in 
  the interoperability plugfest so far people have focused on 
  "attended" workflows right wherever the user is actively driving 
  it we haven't we haven't really focused on the automated or 
  headless.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  One interactions though I'm sure they're 
  important use case.
Adrian Gropper:  Well I'll I'll speak more about this agent thing 
  at later on if there's time.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Okay sounds good yeah anybody else have 
  thoughts and comments on the plugfest.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right so let's move on to iwi for those 
  not familiar with it that stands for the internet identity 
  Workshop which is held twice a year in Mountain View California 
  at the Computer History Museum it is an unconference which means 
  each morning people gather and propose session ideas and then 
  hold the sessions so the VC edu team myself Simone and.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   And Kerri Lemoie.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And did convene sessions about.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  About VC EDU you about Simone, what what was 
  your session on.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  A fantastic and I convened a couple of 
  sessions on one on linking credentials together meaning using 
  hash digests and URLs to cryptographically bind one verifiable 
  credential to another credential or one credential to an external 
  arbitrary resource for example binding to an external PDF file or 
  image.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   So that sort of thing so that that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Discussion about use cases limitations.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah so that's that's the linked claims that 
  fail is mentioned is referring to in chat in the other session 
  was on verifiable credential display so we have this render 
  method term reserved in the verifiable credential data model 
  which can be used to provide issuer hints on how a credential 
  could be displayed either on usual devices or across modalities.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   For accessibility so how could a credential.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  An audio or Braille or constrained devices to 
  lots of love or printed to PDF so lots of good use cases there 
  again really great discussion we look forward to collaborating 
  with everyone on the specification I can put links in chat.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Anybody else who was at IIW and would like to 
  share Impressions questions that sort of thing.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  We can yeah thank go ahead Phil.
PL/T3-ASU: Dmitri I don't know if you can hear me but yeah I just 
  wanted to comment that there was a session I think Adrian and 
  yourself was also in participated in that was presented by Sophia 
  and I can't remember her last name frankly well on on the medical 
  implications in the healthcare industry of transparency in the 
  like associated with SSI and.
PL/T3-ASU: Self-Sovereign Identity.
<dmitri_zagidulin> it was Sophia Goeppinger
PL/T3-ASU: City and the consequences are wrapping ramification 
  that has and I'm wondering I'm curious Adrian if you have some 
  comments on that because I know you quite active in that 
  discussion thank you.
Adrian Gropper:  Yes I mean this is partly my comments and and 
  the whole topic that Sophia did such an excellent job of I mean 
  somebody should describe maybe the new tree but in me what her 
  master's thesis research is about because it's definitely a 
  service through the community and was the top of two of the 
  sessions that IW.
Adrian Gropper:   That were well attended.
Adrian Gropper:  They're only one of them so maybe you should do 
  that first or about this but my comment here about this is that 
  in the healthcare use case and possibly in the edu use case there 
  are not familiar at all with the edge were you scared well a 
  little bit familiar the issue of how credentials move around how 
  their shared how health records move around and how.
Adrian Gropper:  And accessed can happen in two different ways 
  one of them is institutionally controlled in healthcare that 
  called health information exchanges I believe in edu there are 
  some equivalent businesses that do this for money they front end 
  the issue I would say of credentials or the verification of 
  credentials for educational institutions and the alternative 
  which is only.
Adrian Gropper:   Really now.
Adrian Gropper:  When the form of Apple Health at any scale and 
  it's a very small scale is to have patient-centered information 
  sharing which is the domain that I've worked in for you know 10 
  years or more and this is what will bring us to the question of 
  what does a personal digital agent look like if it is to behave 
  as a.
Adrian Gropper:   An alternative to institutionalization.
Adrian Gropper:  Controlled sharing of health records or some 
  aspects of digital credentials that the ones like were mentioned 
  a little bit ago that might look like linked linked claims or in 
  other words they don't their streams that they don't really or 
  images They Don't Really lend themselves to inclusion in in a VC 
  directly so let me let me stop there again if this time.
Adrian Gropper:   I can talk about this personal digital.
Adrian Gropper:  Spective on VC's go ahead.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Adrian I will definitely open up the 
  floor for that in a bit I'm glad Phil and Adrienne brought up 
  Sophia's presentations because they were for me for example they 
  were definitely a highlight of of the conference they're 
  fantastic what Sofia was doing is doing as as part of her 
  master's thesis is essentially putting together a question.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Are that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Health Organization Health institution 
  considering doing a verifiable credentials pilot or a 
  decentralized identity pilot it's a questionnaire and an 
  assessment framework but the institution should go through and it 
  was it had to do with those a really intelligent essentially 
  Excel spreadsheets in multiple parts so there was a set of 
  questions that was asked of the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   IT team.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So that the engineering and then another set 
  of questions for the policy citing team right and it was part of 
  the reason why I think everybody was excited about it it was a 
  focus on not just what do we need for a pilot but as an 
  organization should we are we ready to have that pilot in the 
  first place so the notion was we want verifiable credential 
  decentralized identifier.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   System to get the best possible.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Which means we want to encourage only the 
  organizations that that are ready that had the internal 
  discussion that had answered those questions that have identified 
  use cases identified pain points and frictions put in policies 
  and and teams and so absolutely wonderful questionnaire and 
  assessment framework for health care which I believe she'll.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  As soon as she finishes her master's degree in 
  addition where several projects are underway one involving Phil 
  Long and and myself and some other folks to put together a 
  similar questionnaire or resource guide.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Question are more resource guide in the field 
  of verifiable credentials for Education I'll let Phil add more 
  details to that but in general it was yeah it was a really 
  helpful presentation and I think that pattern of putting together 
  resource guides and questionnaires in any vertical would be 
  really helpful especially for success of this ecosystem.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  You have anything to add.
PL/T3-ASU: Now you said it well the the project you just 
  described is an attempt to really to provide individuals who are 
  knowledgeable about VCS and lers particularly in the context of 
  skills based hiring and advancement work clothes and who are 
  building I guess the current buzzword is end-to-end systems by in 
  by that what is meant is systems that involve all of the 
  stakeholders.
PL/T3-ASU:  hours involved from the.
<colin_reynolds,_ed_design_lab> End-to-End ecosystems. So hot 
  right now.
<dmitri_zagidulin> @Colin - definitely!
PL/T3-ASU: Participants in An Education and Training Program to 
  the institutions that turn around an issue credentials in 
  recognition of completion of those things and and then the 
  management of those credentials by the holder and subsequent 
  presentation via vp's to an end point that pertains to either a 
  job opportunity where the like could be also continuing education 
  continuing professional education graduate school or what have 
  you and then finally the.
PL/T3-ASU:  sumption of.
<colin_reynolds,_ed_design_lab> I think the "LER" acronym is 
  causing an unnecessary block in some of the conversations we're 
  having with employer + HR Tech groups.
PL/T3-ASU: Shows by that third party as they evaluate the 
  credentials as part of the decision about whether the person is 
  an appropriate applicant and so that's that's the work that we're 
  trying to do now which is to provide a set of resources a 
  guideline for those interested in doing that kind of work and a 
  or a guidebook if you will and also a set of relevant resources 
  some of those already exists out there this particular focus is 
  on that particular job transition Edge.
PL/T3-ASU:  occation training transition to work framework.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Phil yeah one of the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  One of the very.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  One of the exciting conclusion things that 
  I've learned from that presentation is the term minimal viable 
  ecosystem mve which is this notion and I think we've all sort of 
  keep it in mind it was just interesting to put a word to it it's 
  this notion of okay if you're going to do a pilot at any 
  institution education or Healthcare identify the minimal viable 
  equal system meaning identify at least some issuers right where 
  you're going to get those credentials identify.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Buy some verifiers who's going to consume the 
  credentials.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Identify a Target population of credential 
  subjects and credential holders before doing right because 
  there's no there's little sense in launching a pilot without 
  identifying all three sort of populations I thought that was a 
  very cool let's see Mahesh go ahead your next up on the queue.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred_com: Yes can you guys hear me okay yeah 
  one of the nice things about the unconference that Dmitri talked 
  about is the fact that there was a lot of discussion just around 
  the round table and we had an interesting one which touches upon 
  the topic that Adrian has brought about about this idea of Agents 
  holding either a health or educational credential and we 
  discussed the possible.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred_com:  use of decentralized
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred_com: web nodes and I forget the name of 
  the gentleman from block who's also spearheading a lot of this 
  work in the open source and so it was a good discussion because 
  it offers some of the things that Adrian has touched which is 
  some fine grained authorizations the ability for agents to kind 
  of work headless on behalf of holder so I think that's another 
  active area from the.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred_com: I'm sure is going to be discussed 
  more actively as in the coming months and another iaw so I just 
  need to add that image thank you.
<pl/t3-asu> @Colin - it's a challenge and I agree that it's a bit 
  frustrating additional term that pertains to VCs that simply 
  focus on the transition to work use cases.  I won't go into the 
  origin of it, but it's now 'out there' and we need to navigate 
  the terminology.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks my hash Adrian go ahead.
Adrian Gropper:  The person you're talking about is Daniel 
  Buckner and with regard to decentralized web nodes and your yes 
  DWNs and digital agents are twins separated at Birth to some 
  extent and that's been an ongoing discussion between the folks at 
  Microsoft and myself from the early days of DWNs
Adrian Gropper:   When Daniel.
Adrian Gropper:  Was still at Microsoft the one other the reason 
  I put myself on the Queue though is there was one other 
  interesting to me a couple of sessions where somebody on the 
  first day asked if dudes are so great why don't I have one yet I 
  didn't attend that session I did a session the next day.
Adrian Gropper:  That is how titled people don't want a digital 
  identity they want an address you know for notifications or 
  whatever they want to reputation they want a credential they want 
  anonymity they want freedom of Association and assembly they want 
  to be left alone and and we had a session that I think was you 
  know somewhat unusual in the IDW context to the point where Doc 
  mentioned that later on.
Adrian Gropper:   As being.
Adrian Gropper:  Where as was just said in the context of Pilots 
  it's not enough to work on these plugfest sand these standards 
  these protocols standards in you know in for their own sake you 
  need to be looking at the ecosystem and the value to the 
  ecosystem at least in some of our opinion is not digital identity 
  per se and you have to approach the ecosystem.
Adrian Gropper:   Or the.
Adrian Gropper:  From some other characteristic like the ones I 
  mentioned some of the service.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Absolutely thanks Adrian anybody else thought 
  some comments on IW before we move on to wallet delegation and 
  headless agents.
PL/T3-ASU: Dimitri you might want to recap to the extent that you 
  can the discussion that was Guided by Google about about so the 
  wallet selection problem.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yes okay great idea so one of.
Kerri Lemoie: +1 Phil!
Dmitri Zagidulin:  One of the other sort of central highlights 
  for me at IIW was a series of session I think there are five or 
  six different sessions on that topic.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That was held by.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Google Android and chrome teams as well as 
  some folks from Microsoft and Fido for for passkeys and so on 
  this notion of.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  OS assisted or browser assisted wallet 
  selection or credential selection so what do we mean by that so a 
  lot of you probably have encountered one of the main challenges 
  in the credential ecosystem if we want an interoperable ecosystem 
  of wallets is this notion of wallet selection so what is wallet 
  selection it's if I come to a website and it's going to issue me 
  a credential or if I come too.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Website and it.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  A credential for example please give me a 
  proof of attendance at the University so I can give you a 
  discount or admit you to some resource.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  How do we make it so that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  He the website issuer verifier how has no 
  constraint or no preferences about which wallets.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The the user is going to use meaning how do I 
  how do we enable these to bring their own wallet and give an 
  appropriate accreditation they were able to put their credentials 
  into it have that wallet intercept credential request right so 
  basically how do we make sure that there's an interoperable 
  ecosystem how do we make it so that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  When I press give me a credential button the 
  some sort of UI pops up that says okay you have the following 
  wallets which one would you like to use or on the request side 
  when I press the button to for the site to ask for the 
  credentials some sort of UI that says okay you have this 
  appropriate credential in such and such a wallet.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Or several of these which ones would you like 
  to present right.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  This this notion of wallet selection I is 
  handled slightly differently in several communities so for 
  example we have this credential Handler API which is a data model 
  and API agnostic way of wallets to register themselves to a 
  browser so that it presents such a UI so you could say here are 
  the users mobile and web wallets that they use that speak either 
  VC API or.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   An ID for for VP.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Which one user which one of them do you want 
  to use so all of this is background to the series of discussions 
  at IIW right so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  However the challenge with credential Handler 
  API is that at the moment is a polyfill meaning it's intended to 
  be implemented by the browser vendors it was intended to be 
  implemented by the browser vendors I think I forget how long ago 
  it was the project will start at least five years and now finally 
  due to various political events and pressures from the industry 
  the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  System and browser vendors are finally like 
  sitting up and taking notice and have been working on this user 
  interface for for about a year now partly it's relevant now 
  because of mobile driver's licenses and.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The Depths the mdl.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  A model and then corresponding apis that for 
  example apple is using to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  To carry the digital driver's license in a lot 
  of u.s. states and the development definitely raised Notions of 
  Monopoly vendor lock-in interoperability like hey do we really 
  want all of our identity and credentials to be controlled by 
  Apple essentially.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And the UI that this wallet selection is 
  credential selection was partly kicked off to handle this mobile 
  driver's license workflow however.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The workflow is the same for verifiable 
  credentials as well so so Google and Microsoft and and the teams 
  also want the same user interface the same old selection to to 
  work with verifiable credentials in addition to MDOC so that's 
  where it came from we.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  There's a lot of good discussion about it the 
  browser teams had questions to the community for for example.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Which which query language should this.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Wallet selection or credential selection you I 
  support right do do we want do we want this browser to 
  standardize a query language and only support that for maximum 
  interoperability or do we want the browser to be agnostic and 
  supports the verifiable credential request presentation exchange 
  the present DIDComm's presentation exchange right so all of 
  these.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Is that the community currently uses right so 
  that was one major topic of discussion and as you can probably 
  guess the community very strongly argued for.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Let the browser UI be agnostic and support Amy 
  any query language.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Another another topic was on the granularity 
  of this user interface does does the browser 12 only present 
  wallets right is it going to be on the wallet selection level or 
  should it be on the credential selection level.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So here's an example come to a website it 
  requests by student ID.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And assume that I've already picked up a 
  student ID that was issued to me by the university and is now in 
  one of my wallets.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Which would be preferable to the community 
  which would be better for interoperability and which would be 
  more user-friendly that the wallet selector popped up inside okay 
  an unfiltered list of wallets like here are all the wallets that 
  you have you the user now try to remember where you put that user 
  ID okay as you probably imagine that's that's very user 
  unfriendly that's that's a non-starter.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   The the.
<cel> ... not to mention at the granularity of claims (mentioned 
  at plugfest demo day)
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It's more finer grained was a pre-filtered 
  side of wallets meaning the the OS knows because the wallets have 
  registered with the OS that my student ID lives in the following 
  two wallets or in the following one wallet right well when it's 
  when it's one wallet and that's less of a concern but let's 
  assume that the credential lives in a couple of wallets.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Does the you I just just display the walls 
  themselves and then lastly on the finer grained side is he's just 
  don't care about wallets they care about credentials so instead 
  why wouldn't the you I just say okay yeah here are the 
  credentials available that fulfill that query so here's a student 
  I do at wallet a and here's a similar student ID at while it be.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And the user yeah the the location of the 
  wallets is labeled but it's D emphasized its so it's credentials 
  first credential selection is most of all its election and lots a 
  lot of heated and interesting discussion about that I believe 
  where it settled was on credential selection because the browser 
  team and then several others argued that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Just wallet selection.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Central's as very much easier on friendly user 
  shouldn't have to remember which while they put what right the 
  the browser and the operating system should should be able to 
  remember that for them so anyways fantastic series of discussions 
  that that is really kind of going to influence our Fates as 
  wallet implementers as credential users as issuers is verifiers 
  we're all going to have to go through that UI and so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   It's definitely important for it to be.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Be friendly data model and API agnostic vendor 
  agnostic all those things the first iteration of that UI is 
  already in Chrome Canary for those that are curious so and I 
  believe a new working group is being chartered with the Sinister 
  name of I think identity credentials a w3c.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  But that working group is about that 
  credential selection you I.

Topic: Headless Wallets, Delegation

Dmitri Zagidulin:  Let's see so we're getting close towards the 
  end of the hour I do want to touch on it so let's open the floor 
  to general questions and specifically let's talk about headless 
  wallets while it delegation and so on so let me sort of set the 
  stage and then Adrian's on the queue you can go ahead one of the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   What am I.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Challenges at least in in this vertical or in 
  the discussion so far with.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Delegated headless wallet interactions is 
  what's the use case right all of the use cases that we've dealt 
  with needed a user to approve.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  A given credential request or a given 
  credential issuance right so such website is asking wants to give 
  you a credential do you consent such as such website is asking 
  for your student ID do you consent.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  How what's the use case what's the workflow.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Where that that set of interactions would be 
  headless would be pre-approved from the user so go ahead Adrian.
<adrian_gropper> Personal Digital Agent IIW slides 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Myzb4SXBC43CtLSZ6wtX5Sn27FqhLS8FFqPm_s4Vnr8/htmlpresent
Adrian Gropper:  Okay thank you I don't want to take too much 
  time before we leave time for discussion so let me just I put in 
  a link off the slides from the session at IIW into the chat what 
  the problem that we're trying to address in a new ietf workgroup 
  that is yet to be named.
Adrian Gropper:  And charted even the beginning of a charter but 
  I'm out soliciting potential implementers which is why I'm here 
  today the the issue just talked about in the credential selection 
  thing gets even more complicated when you have selective 
  disclosure for example and or relatively expensive process has 
  like zero knowledge proofs - which are extremely useful of 
  course.
<colin_reynolds,_ed_design_lab> ZKPs FTW
Adrian Gropper:  The one way to handle this kind of complication 
  of choosing amongst wallets amongst credentials and then amongst 
  disclosures within a credential would be to delegate that 
  function to an expert and so we.
Dmitri Zagidulin: https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/gnap/documents/
Adrian Gropper:  A new ietf work group built on top of the grant 
  negotiation and authorization protocol organ app ietf standard 
  which is brand-new actually you'll be presented tomorrow at the 
  ccg called noon Eastern by Justin Richer and on top of this 
  credential which isn't explicitly designed to manage a.
Adrian Gropper:   Personal digital agent.
Adrian Gropper:  The question I'm posing to the community in 
  order to begin to Charter a stand like this is what else needs to 
  be in scope Beyond GNAP in order to deal with this problem and 
  I'm posing the question not in the context of privacy that drives 
  a lot of the conversation at in terms of data models and 
  protocols but in terms of the human right of freedom of 
  Association and assembly which is.
Adrian Gropper:   Jizz itself.
Adrian Gropper:  Of a workgroup paper from ietf about line of 
  seven six seven years ago and so I'm trying to approach this 
  almost as an absolute in other words a universal human right 
  rather than a choice of privacy things and saying be able to 
  delegate to an expert things that relate to your credentials is 
  something that we consider.
Adrian Gropper:   How are a human right just like we.
Adrian Gropper:  And a half.
Adrian Gropper:  Expert lawyers or doctors or family members or 
  trusted family members act as our agents if the situation arises 
  and let me stop there and like I say anybody that looks at these 
  slides and wants to contact me should directly or there's a link 
  in the slides to a signal group that's very small that again I'm 
  just looking for a potential interested parties and implementers.
Adrian Gropper:  Chilly start this ietf standard thank you.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Adrian and feel free to put in a way 
  for people to contact you if they want to continue the 
  conversation about this potential working group.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So does anybody have.
<adrian_gropper> agropper@healthurl.com
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So we've got eight minutes til the top of the 
  hour though we're always happy to conclude earlier and give 
  people time between calls does anybody have any last moment 
  question either about headless wallet workflows or anything else 
  that we discussed.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right so sounds like a lot of good topics 
  for future discussion on while a delegation wallet selection 
  display and we encourage the community to propose new call topics 
  and to ask questions on the mailing list say hey can we have a 
  discussion about this and.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Oh about that will help inform topics for 
  future calls a reminder that our very own Kerri Lemoie has 
  stepped down as VC edu co-chair to focus on being a VC edu member 
  and attendance to focus on all the great work in verifiable 
  credentials that she's doing which means we'll be holding 
  co-chair.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Rank Choice voting.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  What but that means we need candidates so 
  start thinking about whether you yourself want to volunteer as a 
  co-chair if you know good candidates talk to them talk to the 
  chairs and so on so we'll have another call dedicated to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The clarification of what a co-chair means or 
  if we have candidates at that point the candidates can tell talk 
  about themselves and we'll go through the voting procedure.
<simone_ravaioli> Thank you Dmitri !
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right and with that let's let's include 
  the call thank you everyone great questions as always and please 
  take the discussion to the list.
<pl/t3-asu> Thanks Dmitri!
<kerri_lemoie> Great call!
