Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Benjamin Collins for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-11-22-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-11-22-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2022-11-22

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Nov/0118.html
Action Items:
  1. add third proposal to interop 468
  2. create a separate issue to have server generate issuer field 
    when generating VCs
  3. nis to ping VladimirAlexiev regarding issue #280
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Benjamin Collins
Present:
  Chris Abernethy, Paul Dietrich GS1, Nis Jespersen , TallTed // 
  Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Benjamin Collins, Orie 
  Steele, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Mark Foster, Ted Thibodeau

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/468
Benjamin Collins is scribing.
Chris Abernethy:  For issue 468 this is something Orie and I 
  synced offline
Chris Abernethy:  This is about retrieving a credential which was 
  previously issued
Chris Abernethy:  This is because the id is both optional and can 
  be non-unique
Chris Abernethy:  One option is to have the id to not be included 
  for revocable credentials and the id is provided by the server
Chris Abernethy:  This means the server will need to be able to 
  add the id into the credential that is sent back
Chris Abernethy:  The other option would be to add another 
  top-level attribute which be a way to reference the id
Chris Abernethy:  In the case of revocable credentials this 
  top-level attribute would be required
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> Can we not have the issuer always return an 
  ID?
Chris Abernethy:  I have implemented this in our implementation, 
  and it works well
Chris Abernethy:  But i wanted to get feedback from other members
Chris Abernethy:  Orie, i don;t know if you've had a chance to 
  read through issue 468
Orie Steele:  I would like to see comments from all participants 
  before we take action
<orie> We do say `id` is required already
<orie> in our profile
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So id is optional, but can we say that id is 
  required
Chris Abernethy:  The id is provided by the requesting party
<orie> please read: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-vocab/#extensions-to-standard
<orie>	> The object MUST have an id property, and its value MUST 
  be a valid IRI (URI, URN).
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Why can't we say, the party does not provide 
  an id, and we provide an id on the server?
Chris Abernethy:  This would break interoperability with VC-API
Paul: what's the use-case of the requestor providing that id with 
  the provider creating the id
Orie Steele:  As far as i'm aware it's undefined behavior 
  developed from the issuance API
Orie Steele:  The group debated RESTful API's and didn't provide 
  requirements around this area
Orie Steele:  In the case of the traceability-API, we are 
  providing context around these use-cases
Orie Steele:  We're trying to reduce optionality and provide 
  specific use-cases for interopability
<mahmoud> hi, sorry i crashed, missd your response Chris, will 
  read the log earlier
Paul: the question was what's the use-case for a client to define 
  their own id?
Orie Steele:  The case is a CQRS flow where they have their own 
  stable identifiers, and they know they want the id to be a 
  specific id, and the issuers policy was to accept that, that 
  would be a case
Paul: thank you
Chris Abernethy:  Would you say that if we forbid someone 
  providing an id, would that be an option?
Orie Steele:  Right now it says that id is required for all of 
  the traceability credentials
Orie Steele:  We can say the id MUST NOT BE present, and the 
  server will provide the id
Chris Abernethy:  I would like to provide this as a third 
  proposal as i think that would be better than the current 
  proposals we have

ACTION: add third proposal to interop 468

Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think the idea the server is the one that 
  assigns the id, and i think it's the cleanest solution
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Another thing is the issuer field, i set it 
  up so that issue field is always populated by the server
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So if you provide your own random issuer, it 
  would be changed to the configured issuer
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It's a point of how much optionality do we 
  allow to the request, versus how we define behavior on the server
<nis> Paul, pondering if there are GS1 requirements to be 
  considered?
Chris Abernethy:  I think i agree, and would like to see that as 
  a separate issue

ACTION: create a separate issue to have server generate issuer 
  field when generating VCs

Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/469
Chris Abernethy:  Reminder to have every add their comments to 
  the issue
Chris Abernethy:  Next issue is a response to a verification 
  request
Chris Abernethy:  Currently we provide a response that is true or 
  false, and the response has a requirement on the verified field 
  and not the verification field
Chris Abernethy:  In this case simply returning true or false is 
  not very helpful, and having the verification array would provide 
  extra context
Chris Abernethy:  I think we should only have it required when 
  the verification is false
Benjamin Collins:  I agree with that, either when false or either 
  an empty array when true is also an option
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
Chris Abernethy:  This is something i wanted to get attention on, 
  so i can add a "Ready for PR" tag next week
Chris Abernethy:  First PR is 629 from Nis
Nis Jespersen :  This is picking up the ones that need to be 
  prefixed for ecommerce
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/629
Nis Jespersen :  It's sort of based on that, and updated with the 
  patterns that we've developed since then
Nis Jespersen :  This is addressing eCommerce and the 
  requirements we have from CBP
Nis Jespersen :  It's a bunch of credentials that supports 
  eCommerce data flows to insentivise parties to share data early
Chris Abernethy:  Unless there are any rejections, i'll go ahead 
  and merge this
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/630
Chris Abernethy:  Next one is 630
Nis Jespersen :  This is adding revocation for expiration date 
  and credentialStatus to ctpat certificate
Nis Jespersen :  We are having trouble with the test
Nis Jespersen :  PR 632 is doing the same thing, so I will close 
  my PR in favor of that one
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/631
Benjamin Collins:  What this PR does is provide proof with a 
  specific JSOn schema for all of the credentials
Chris Abernethy:  Looks like Ted had some change suggestions, did 
  you have a change to re-review?
Ted Thibodeau:  Yes, I'm good
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/632
Benjamin Collins:  This is a change request that adds expiration 
  date to CTPAt and adds credential status
Benjamin Collins:  It's the issue of credential status that we're 
  having trouble with, of getting the added context to work with 
  the jest tests
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
Chris Abernethy:  Is thereany objects to merging offline once the 
  issues are addressed?
Chris Abernethy:  I'll leave a comment to indicate this
Chris Abernethy:  Would you like to add comments to 405?
Orie Steele:  Sure this is still being defined, and there are no 
  actions to take here
Chris Abernethy:  I think i linked the wrong issue, let me sort
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/290
Chris Abernethy:  The correct first issue was 290
Ted Thibodeau: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Chris Abernethy:  This one was opened by Vladimir, looks like Nis 
  suggested we pick this up once we dive into GS1 modeling
Chris Abernethy:  Does anyone have any updates on this issue? Or 
  can we assign anyone to this issue?
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/290
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think i missed this ping, assign it to me 
  and i'll track it. Hopefully before we go through it again
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/277
Chris Abernethy:  Next issue is also from Vladimir about 
  inheritance and not aggregation
Orie Steele:  This issue applied to how we build our context from 
  our data model. Because of that we have some constraints on how 
  we model our credentials
Orie Steele:  This is someone with a lot of experience with RDF 
  and JSON schema, and asking "if i used inheritance would that 
  break it?"
Orie Steele:  We should move the issue forward towards a concrete 
  response, in this case it looks like a feature request
Orie Steele:  We need to steer this issue from a debate to a 
  specific actionable request to resolve the issue
Chris Abernethy:  Next issue is 280
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/280
Orie Steele:  It looks like he's suggesting we use something than 
  OpenAPI specification 3
Orie Steele:  And I think that we should indicate that we're 
  sticking with OpenAPI
Chris Abernethy:  Can we add a comment that says, we're not 
  intended on deviating from our current tools and add "Pending 
  Close" on the issue
Orie Steele:  We have this $linkedData struct we have in OAS, 
  depending on how we do this is dependent on the tool that we 
  could use to define heirarchies
Ted Thibodeau:  So it's a question of tool maturity?
Orie Steele:  It's also a question of what's be requested on the 
  issue, we have simple simple tooling that doesn't support richer 
  ontology management
Ted Thibodeau:  If the richer ontology management is desired, 
  then the tool needs further work?
Orie Steele:  I think that's basically what's he's saying, the 
  question is does everyone want that richer ontology management?
Orie Steele:  If we can define what those are, then we can 
  approach it, but it adds to the complexity, so we're going to 
  want to make sure the other participants want that complextity?
Ted Thibodeau:  This gets to a bit of who feels the pain? In 
  general we don't want to put it on the user. We want to get 
  uptake on interop.
Orie Steele:  The hard part for me is understanding what's being 
  requested to estimate complexity
Ted Thibodeau:  It might be worth getting Vladimir to join a call 
  instead of posting a ton of issues, this could be faster and 
  easier
Chris Abernethy:  Does anybody know and work with Vladimir?
Orie Steele:  Nis can ping him to ask, but we want to make sure 
  we move the issue forward

ACTION: nis to ping VladimirAlexiev regarding issue #280

Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/542
Chris Abernethy:  Next issue is 542
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/543
Benjamin Collins:  This was a note to self and i think it was 
  addressed so it can be closed
Benjamin Collins:  For 543 this was a note for how we standardize 
  the definition of types in our schemas, so i think this one can 
  be closed
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/385
Chris Abernethy:  This one is assigned to Nis
Nis Jespersen :  I did play around with EPCIS a little but have 
  not taken it across the finish line
Nis Jespersen :  Right now we're asking for some GS1 feedback and 
  also including the examples
Nis Jespersen :  It's not super-related to the VC data model that 
  came from GS1
Paul: this is un-related to the VC data model
Nis Jespersen :  In my opinion EPCIS fits into verifiable 
  credentials, i would love to spend a couple of days, this is 
  asking for bandwidth toward furthering that
Nis Jespersen :  We made the decision that we weren't going to 
  over invest in this, so i will unassign myself
Paul: i can ask the EPCIS in the standards to see if he wants to 
  take this on, if you want to work with him
Nis Jespersen :  If we could build that bridge, it looks like a 
  no brainer, i would love that
Paul: I can ask the US satndards team and hopefully they have 
  bandwidth to help out
<paul_dietrich_gs1> paulfdietrich
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/406
Chris Abernethy:  Next one is 406, opened by Orie
Orie Steele:  Francis Kim has a credential that represents a bank 
  account, he asked the question but never followed up, so I will 
  ping him on this issue
Chris Abernethy:  Next issue is 553
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/553
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So we're having a conversation on a PR for 
  how obvious our fake data should be
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We should have more obviously real data, or 
  more obviously fake data
Chris Abernethy:  Do we have any privacy issues around this?
Ted Thibodeau:  I think it would be fine if it was company data 
  and not individual data
Nis Jespersen :  This feels like a nice-to-have  for a problem 
  i'm not having
Nis Jespersen :  I think there is value in having something that 
  feels recognizable
Nis Jespersen :  I think we should focus on realism to have real 
  streets
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  This was raised by Orie when he was trying 
  to put examples to get coordinates, which were having bad 
  coordinates
Orie Steele:  We were using random GPS coordinates, we should at 
  least have valid coordinates
Orie Steele:  Does this identify ACME inc as a real company in 
  the United states, or does this coordinates point to the middle 
  of the ocean?
Ted Thibodeau:  It depends on what kind of system this data is 
  going to get loaded into
Chris Abernethy:  Would it be worth modifying the issue to say 
  the data should model what it's trying to portray
Nis Jespersen : "Geo": {
<nis> We still have this ^
Orie Steele:  In the case of issues with "fix all of the 
  schemas", we should create issues on a case-by-case basis where 
  we have a problem with specific credentials
Orie Steele:  We should be loading data into real systems and if 
  we find errors in the data, we should file a separate issue for 
  those cases
Chris Abernethy:  We're at time i will post the meeting minutes
Chris Abernethy:  I would like someone else to post the agenda 
  and run the meeting next week
Nis Jespersen :  I can do that
Chris Abernethy:  Thank you, see you next week
