Thanks to ben_(transmute) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-12-06-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-12-06-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2022-12-06

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Dec/0012.html
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  ben_(transmute)
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Chris Abernethy, Ben (Transmute), Yinghui 
  (Vivien) Fan, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau 
  (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Ted Thibodeau, Orie Steele

ben_(transmute) is scribing.
Nis Jespersen :  Welcome everyone, I'll be running the meeting 
  today
Nis Jespersen :  Remember to sign the contributor agreements, 
  today is vocab week. so we will get started with trace-vocab pull 
  requests
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/647
Nis Jespersen :  Let's get started with pull requests. first one 
  is 647
Nis Jespersen :  This is a pull requests for creating a bank 
  account and routing info RDF class
Nis Jespersen :  And a bank account verifiable credential, it 
  looks like there are some CI errors
Nis Jespersen :  So i hope they ask questions or open an issue to 
  get help with the tooling
Nis Jespersen :  Let's make a comment to that effect
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/649
Nis Jespersen :  Next is 649, this introduces two of the 
  credentials created by GS1 in their data model document
Nis Jespersen :  Ted has some comments for UK versus US english
Ted Thibodeau:  The W3C style sheet says use US english
Nis Jespersen :  There are a few more credentials, would it be 
  okay to come back and edit the US alignment?
Ted Thibodeau:  The easiest thing to do would be to copy the 
  content out of Github and use a word editor to align the spelling
Nis Jespersen :  I will try to remember
Ted Thibodeau:  You can open an issue to remind yourself
Nis Jespersen :  Created issue 654, it should help me rember
Nis Jespersen :  Any objections to merging?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/650
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/651
Nis Jespersen :  This is a PR that addresses a syntax error on 
  inspection report, we are not declaring an array on a type
Nis Jespersen :  In our attempt to make our schemas more narrow, 
  we've tried to make expiration date required, but it's causing 
  down stream errors
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Was the reason, a business reason for why 
  they wouldn't be included?
Nis Jespersen :  It was a technical issue, not a business 
  reasoning
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Let's say today, we added expiration date on 
  other credentials, would that break interop?
<orie> Sry I am late
Nis Jespersen :  It's an issue with the tooling, and not an issue 
  with the data model
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay, thank you
Nis Jespersen :  That was it for vocab, switching over to interop
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
<chris_abernethy> sigh. mic issues. Yes, I'm being pulled in 
  several directions :)
Nis Jespersen :  And we have no pull requests on interop, so we 
  will switch to trace-vocab and sort by least recently updated
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/272
Nis Jespersen :  First is issue 272, for LEI ontology, we pinged 
  Vlad back in August about this
Nis Jespersen :  I could use a little more help on understanding 
  what he's going for. Can we add pending close on this without 
  clear requirements?
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> no issues
Nis Jespersen :  That sounds okay with me
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/443
Nis Jespersen :  Next is issue 443, from Mahmoud
Nis Jespersen :  The issue is about adding vocab visualizations 
  to the CD
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  This is working, and the issue can be closed
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/445
Nis Jespersen :  Next is issue 445 about making type an array of 
  strings
Nis Jespersen :  I think this has been applied across the entire 
  repo, and this can be closed
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/273
Nis Jespersen :  This is another issue from Vladimir, with a 
  discussion on address
Ted Thibodeau:  If it remember correctly this was that uncefact 
  need to get their act together
Nis Jespersen :  I think this is worth looking at agin after 
  Cfact(?) has matured, let me give myself a note on this
Ted Thibodeau:  It's probably worth opening an issue on their 
  stuff to point out the problem, such as their line number things
Nis Jespersen :  This came up on a UN meeting yesterday, and 
  someone was positive about this change as street is more Western 
  oriented.
Ted Thibodeau:  I think it's good way to do things, it's that if 
  they are names as lined numeric versus lined number word, i think 
  there will be issues
Nis Jespersen :  Putting on my UN hat i would be happy to address 
  that, but let's not get into that now
Nis Jespersen :  I'll assign myself on this issue
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/24
Nis Jespersen :  Nest issue is what is the relationship between 
  this vocabulary and EPCIS?
<chris_abernethy> Looks like this should be pending-close based 
  on latest comments?
Nis Jespersen :  We discussed it and put on pause because no one 
  had bandwidth to keep it around.
Nis Jespersen :  I think we can safely close this issue.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/451
Chris Abernethy: +1 To close
Nis Jespersen :  This is an issue for addressing console logs in 
  npm run test
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/297
Nis Jespersen :  This is done and it's great to finally be able 
  to use npm run test to debug.
Nis Jespersen :  In this case we need an example, which I agree 
  on Orie's last comment
Nis Jespersen :  Everytime I look at these measurements, I choke 
  on lack of example. Any suggestions for how to push this forward?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I don't think anyone here as worked with the 
  Allotrope framework, so it's hard to allocate anyone to work on 
  this
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think we should ask Vladimir for examples 
  on this, but the earliest we could take a look at it is by March 
  if anyone else can look at it before then
Mahmoudl there is a reference to W3C cube, which we can use as a 
  reference
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/300
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Who ever volunteers would volunteer for 
  both, we have two separate proposals for the same problem, so we 
  can track this on a single issue
Nis Jespersen :  I'm not sure which one we want to close, I'd 
  prefer to keep them both open
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/306
Nis Jespersen :  Next one is visualization guide, we have some 
  more visualizations we could introduce
Orie Steele:  I'm doing something related to this right now as a 
  we speak
Orie Steele:  It's like saying okay you have a Mill Test Report, 
  but what are all of the terms in that credential
Orie Steele:  There are two ways to approach this, one is to 
  process the schema, and the other is to process the final example 
  credential, it seems like using the schema is a more direct 
  approach than the JSON-LD
Orie Steele:  For each of the credential types, how do we show it 
  meets the customer requirements. And for each credential it's 
  what are the required fields?
Orie Steele:  If anyone has opinions about what they want to see, 
  it would be nice to get more requests in this issue
Nis Jespersen :  I was thinking something different, I was 
  thinking that we were doing the same thing for all schemas, and 
  not have different visualizations per schema.
Nis Jespersen :  One thing that comes into this is that we're 
  trying not to define new terms, so having something to prove that 
  we're using existing terms.
Nis Jespersen :  Orie, can I assign you to the issue?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/304
Orie Steele:  No, I'm working on my version of this that needs to 
  be addressed now, and I'm asking for comments on the issue.
Nis Jespersen :  Next is 304 from Mahmoud
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  One of the things that we figured out when 
  adding country code definitions, we wanted to not overload text. 
  The goal of this was to update schema.org to allow for three 
  character country codes
Nis Jespersen :  Would it make any sense to switch away from 
  schema.org's definition?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I don't know, I haven't given it any 
  throught
Nis Jespersen :  This is really a weakness of schema dot org. Not 
  sure if what I'm suggesting makes sense. The link I included is 
  not really a term definition.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: https://schema.org/addressCountry
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  If we look it says you can either provide 
  the country, or the country code. In our case we're only using 
  the country coude
Ted Thibodeau:  From what I remember we were not restricting to 
  only the country code, but to strongly recommend it.
Nis Jespersen :  So the suggestion is to add on schema dot org 
  side to add the recommendation for the country code?
Nis Jespersen :  I'll assign myself to this to make an issue on 
  schema dot org.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/555
Nis Jespersen :  Moving on is issue 555 from me
Nis Jespersen :  The suggestion here is to change traceable 
  presentation to workflow presentation.
Nis Jespersen :  To Ted's first point in the issue, it is a 
  presentation carrying a workflow, so this is a more descriptive 
  name.
Ted Thibodeau:  It seems like it flows naturally, if this change 
  is being made, then the other changes in the issue make sense.
Ted Thibodeau:  I'm in my same position as I was on September 
  9th, that I don't have enough context from the snippet in the 
  start of the issue to have a strong opinion.
Nis Jespersen :  I can add a link to the traceable presentation 
  definition. To quickly describe it, it's a workflow definition
Orie Steele:  For everything we have, we should have a link back 
  to the definition. If we click that link, does it resolve to an 
  explanation, or is that text the problem?
Nis Jespersen :  So all it does right now is to make a connection 
  to workflow. Originally I made the name traceable-presentations, 
  since it came from the traceability repositories, it made sense 
  to name it after ourselves.
Ted Thibodeau:  It makes more sense to say you minted this term, 
  and after consideration you have a better phrase for the term. So 
  i have no argument.
Nis Jespersen :  Can we label this as "Ready for PR"?
Nis Jespersen :  "Ready for PR" added.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/546
Nis Jespersen :  Let's try to do one more, next is 546 from Ben
Nis Jespersen :  The context around this was that we gathered a 
  lot of requirements that could be added into traceability-vocab, 
  but didn't have the bandwidth to address
Ted Thibodeau:  I would suggest updating the issue name since 
  that wasn't clear from the title. I suggest we add the "Help 
  Wanted" tag , as well as "Good First Issue"
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/460
Nis Jespersen :  This is an issue to track specifically how many 
  schemas we had errors on when running npm run test. This has been 
  addressed, and we can close this.
Nis Jespersen :  That concludes the meeting for this week, do we 
  have someone to post the minutes?
Chris Abernethy:  I can do it
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Can we take a second, to address 12/27 and 
  12/20?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Let's say 12/13 is the last trace call of 
  the year, is that okay?
Everyone: yes
Nis Jespersen :  In that case i will volunteer to host the last 
  meeting of the year.
Everyone: bye
