[2022-12-06T18:30:50.505Z]	<nis>	present+
[2022-12-06T18:30:50.814Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-12-06T18:30:58.769Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	present+
[2022-12-06T18:31:27.928Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-12-06T18:31:41.045Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-12-06T18:32:12.654Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2022-12-06T18:32:28.422Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	scribe+
[2022-12-06T18:32:51.831Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: welcome everyone, I'll be running the meeting today
[2022-12-06T18:33:01.216Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Dec/0012.html
[2022-12-06T18:33:13.701Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: remember to sign the contributor agreements, today is vocab week. so we will get started with trace-vocab pull requests
[2022-12-06T18:33:14.287Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2022-12-06T18:33:26.074Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-12-06T18:33:39.177Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/647
[2022-12-06T18:33:53.801Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: let's get started with pull requests. first one is 647
[2022-12-06T18:35:22.928Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-12-06T18:35:40.566Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ben: This is a pull requests for creating a bank account and routing info RDF class
[2022-12-06T18:35:58.159Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ben: and a bank account verifiable credential, it looks like there are some CI errors
[2022-12-06T18:36:14.448Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ben: so i hope they ask questions or open an issue to get help with the tooling
[2022-12-06T18:36:26.583Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Let's make a comment to that effect
[2022-12-06T18:36:28.278Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/649
[2022-12-06T18:36:49.025Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Next is 649, this introduces two of the credentials created by GS1 in their data model document
[2022-12-06T18:37:26.270Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Ted has some comments for UK versus US english
[2022-12-06T18:37:46.016Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ted: the W3C style sheet says use US english
[2022-12-06T18:38:21.220Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: There are a few more credentials, would it be okay to come back and edit the US alignment?
[2022-12-06T18:38:46.817Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ted: The easiest thing to do would be to copy the content out of Github and use a word editor to align the spelling
[2022-12-06T18:38:52.431Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: I will try to remember
[2022-12-06T18:39:00.188Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ted: You can open an issue to remind yourself
[2022-12-06T18:39:18.397Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Created issue 654, it should help me rember
[2022-12-06T18:39:43.541Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Any objections to merging?
[2022-12-06T18:39:45.834Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/650
[2022-12-06T18:43:01.981Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/651
[2022-12-06T18:43:28.942Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ben: this is a PR that addresses a syntax error on inspection report, we are not declaring an array on a type
[2022-12-06T18:44:22.390Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: In our attempt to make our schemas more narrow, we've tried to make expiration date required, but it's causing down stream errors
[2022-12-06T18:44:46.785Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: Was the reason, a business reason for why they wouldn't be included?
[2022-12-06T18:45:15.638Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: It was a technical issue, not a business reasoning
[2022-12-06T18:46:11.569Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: Let's say today, we added expiration date on other credentials, would that break interop?
[2022-12-06T18:46:17.773Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-12-06T18:46:24.885Z]	<Orie>	Sry I am late
[2022-12-06T18:47:28.535Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: it's an issue with the tooling, and not an issue with the data model
[2022-12-06T18:47:34.548Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: okay, thank you
[2022-12-06T18:47:47.079Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: that was it for vocab, switching over to interop
[2022-12-06T18:48:16.474Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2022-12-06T18:48:18.729Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	sigh. mic issues. Yes, I'm being pulled in several directions :)
[2022-12-06T18:48:31.363Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: and we have no pull requests on interop, so we will switch to trace-vocab and sort by least recently updated
[2022-12-06T18:48:36.065Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/272
[2022-12-06T18:49:33.130Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: First is issue 272, for LEI ontology, we pinged Vlad back in August about this
[2022-12-06T18:50:19.784Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: I could use a little more help on understanding what he's going for. Can we add pending close on this without clear requirements?
[2022-12-06T18:50:30.936Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	no issues
[2022-12-06T18:50:37.270Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ben: That sounds okay with me
[2022-12-06T18:51:14.498Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/443
[2022-12-06T18:51:21.767Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Next is issue 443, from Mahmoud
[2022-12-06T18:51:39.799Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: The issue is about adding vocab visualizations to the CD
[2022-12-06T18:51:57.561Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: This is working, and the issue can be closed
[2022-12-06T18:52:04.907Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/445
[2022-12-06T18:52:39.983Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Next is issue 445 about making type an array of strings
[2022-12-06T18:52:54.324Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ben: I think this has been applied across the entire repo, and this can be closed
[2022-12-06T18:53:10.352Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/273
[2022-12-06T18:53:43.074Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: This is another issue from Vladimir, with a discussion on address
[2022-12-06T18:54:32.302Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ted: If it remember correctly this was that uncefact need to get their act together
[2022-12-06T18:54:58.743Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: I think this is worth looking at agin after Cfact(?) has matured, let me give myself a note on this
[2022-12-06T18:55:22.499Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ted: It's probably worth opening an issue on their stuff to point out the problem, such as their line number things
[2022-12-06T18:55:56.272Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: This came up on a UN meeting yesterday, and someone was positive about this change as street is more Western oriented.
[2022-12-06T18:56:02.674Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2022-12-06T18:56:27.161Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ted: I think it's good way to do things, it's that if they are names as lined numeric versus lined number word, i think there will be issues
[2022-12-06T18:56:46.230Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: putting on my UN hat i would be happy to address that, but let's not get into that now
[2022-12-06T18:56:54.384Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: I'll assign myself on this issue
[2022-12-06T18:56:56.534Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/24
[2022-12-06T18:57:21.018Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Nest issue is what is the relationship between this vocabulary and EPCIS?
[2022-12-06T18:57:37.539Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Looks like this should be pending-close based on latest comments?
[2022-12-06T18:57:56.722Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: We discussed it and put on pause because no one had bandwidth to keep it around.
[2022-12-06T18:58:26.920Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: I think we can safely close this issue.
[2022-12-06T18:58:26.961Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/451
[2022-12-06T18:59:04.888Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	+1 to close
[2022-12-06T18:59:07.307Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: This is an issue for addressing console logs in npm run test
[2022-12-06T18:59:21.010Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/297
[2022-12-06T18:59:21.914Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: this is done and it's great to finally be able to use npm run test to debug.
[2022-12-06T19:00:09.145Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: In this case we need an example, which I agree on Orie's last comment
[2022-12-06T19:00:35.441Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Everytime I look at these measurements, I choke on lack of example. Any suggestions for how to push this forward?
[2022-12-06T19:01:14.273Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: I don't think anyone here as worked with the Allotrope framework, so it's hard to allocate anyone to work on this
[2022-12-06T19:01:54.942Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: I think we should ask Vladimir for examples on this, but the earliest we could take a look at it is by March if anyone else can look at it before then
[2022-12-06T19:02:41.760Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoudl there is a reference to W3C cube, which we can use as a reference
[2022-12-06T19:02:48.998Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/300
[2022-12-06T19:03:53.280Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: Who ever volunteers would volunteer for both, we have two separate proposals for the same problem, so we can track this on a single issue
[2022-12-06T19:04:19.334Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: I'm not sure which one we want to close, I'd prefer to keep them both open
[2022-12-06T19:05:22.107Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/306
[2022-12-06T19:05:43.807Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Next one is visualization guide, we have some more visualizations we could introduce
[2022-12-06T19:05:55.625Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: I'm doing something related to this right now as a we speak
[2022-12-06T19:06:21.167Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: It's like saying okay you have a Mill Test Report, but what are all of the terms in that credential
[2022-12-06T19:06:54.478Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: There are two ways to approach this, one is to process the schema, and the other is to process the final example credential, it seems like using the schema is a more direct approach than the JSON-LD
[2022-12-06T19:07:29.242Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: for each of the credential types, how do we show it meets the customer requirements. And for each credential it's what are the required fields?
[2022-12-06T19:07:31.568Z]	<nis>	q+
[2022-12-06T19:07:40.482Z]	<nis>	ack nis
[2022-12-06T19:08:08.437Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: If anyone has opinions about what they want to see, it would be nice to get more requests in this issue
[2022-12-06T19:08:45.924Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: I was thinking something different, I was thinking that we were doing the same thing for all schemas, and not have different visualizations per schema.
[2022-12-06T19:09:26.536Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: One thing that comes into this is that we're trying not to define new terms, so having something to prove that we're using existing terms.
[2022-12-06T19:09:37.716Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Orie, can I assign you to the issue?
[2022-12-06T19:09:56.826Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/304
[2022-12-06T19:09:58.958Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: No, I'm working on my version of this that needs to be addressed now, and I'm asking for comments on the issue.
[2022-12-06T19:10:22.710Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Next is 304 from Mahmoud
[2022-12-06T19:11:24.229Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: One of the things that we figured out when adding country code definitions, we wanted to not overload text. The goal of this was to update schema.org to allow for three character country codes
[2022-12-06T19:11:42.320Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Would it make any sense to switch away from schema.org's definition?
[2022-12-06T19:11:55.924Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: I don't know, I haven't given it any throught
[2022-12-06T19:12:26.087Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: This is really a weakness of schema dot org. Not sure if what I'm suggesting makes sense. The link I included is not really a term definition.
[2022-12-06T19:12:42.551Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://schema.org/addressCountry
[2022-12-06T19:13:13.182Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: if we look it says you can either provide the country, or the country code. In our case we're only using the country coude
[2022-12-06T19:14:02.548Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ted: From what I remember we were not restricting to only the country code, but to strongly recommend it.
[2022-12-06T19:14:28.891Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: So the suggestion is to add on schema dot org side to add the recommendation for the country code?
[2022-12-06T19:15:13.627Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: I'll assign myself to this to make an issue on schema dot org.
[2022-12-06T19:15:17.350Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/555
[2022-12-06T19:15:22.481Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Moving on is issue 555 from me
[2022-12-06T19:15:51.403Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: The suggestion here is to change traceable presentation to workflow presentation.
[2022-12-06T19:16:34.828Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: To Ted's first point in the issue, it is a presentation carrying a workflow, so this is a more descriptive name.
[2022-12-06T19:17:17.591Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ted: It seems like it flows naturally, if this change is being made, then the other changes in the issue make sense.
[2022-12-06T19:17:52.894Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ted: I'm in my same position as I was on September 9th, that I don't have enough context from the snippet in the start of the issue to have a strong opinion.
[2022-12-06T19:18:19.578Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: I can add a link to the traceable presentation definition. To quickly describe it, it's a workflow definition
[2022-12-06T19:18:55.277Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Orie: For everything we have, we should have a link back to the definition. If we click that link, does it resolve to an explanation, or is that text the problem?
[2022-12-06T19:20:06.261Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: So all it does right now is to make a connection to workflow. Originally I made the name traceable-presentations, since it came from the traceability repositories, it made sense to name it after ourselves.
[2022-12-06T19:20:41.569Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ted: it makes more sense to say you minted this term, and after consideration you have a better phrase for the term. So i have no argument.
[2022-12-06T19:20:56.103Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Can we label this as "Ready for PR"?
[2022-12-06T19:21:10.276Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: "Ready for PR" added.
[2022-12-06T19:21:46.157Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/546
[2022-12-06T19:22:36.546Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: Let's try to do one more, next is 546 from Ben
[2022-12-06T19:23:35.059Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ben: The context around this was that we gathered a lot of requirements that could be added into traceability-vocab, but didn't have the bandwidth to address
[2022-12-06T19:24:20.235Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ted: I would suggest updating the issue name since that wasn't clear from the title. I suggest we add the "Help Wanted" tag , as well as "Good First Issue"
[2022-12-06T19:24:44.018Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/460
[2022-12-06T19:26:17.194Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Ben: This is an issue to track specifically how many schemas we had errors on when running npm run test. This has been addressed, and we can close this.
[2022-12-06T19:26:44.104Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: That concludes the meeting for this week, do we have someone to post the minutes?
[2022-12-06T19:26:50.608Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Chris: I can do it
[2022-12-06T19:27:38.472Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: Can we take a second, to address 12/27 and 12/20?
[2022-12-06T19:27:53.722Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Mahmoud: Let's say 12/13 is the last trace call of the year, is that okay?
[2022-12-06T19:28:01.619Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Everyone: yes
[2022-12-06T19:28:29.659Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Nis: In that case i will volunteer to host the last meeting of the year.
[2022-12-06T19:28:35.578Z]	<Ben_(Transmute)>	Everyone: bye
