[2022-01-10T14:53:08.215Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2022-01-10T14:53:08.216Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2022Jan/0000.html
[2022-01-10T15:54:31.314Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2022-01-10T15:58:43.798Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:00:34.002Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:01:20.309Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:01:22.130Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:01:27.553Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:01:27.910Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:01:43.735Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:01:49.126Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:01:58.205Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:02:47.908Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:02:48.617Z]	<Jim_Kelly>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:02:51.561Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	:clap
[2022-01-10T16:03:01.565Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:03:48.379Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:03:58.876Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	happy new year everyone!
[2022-01-10T16:04:17.382Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:04:34.433Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-01-10T16:04:34.433Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2022-01-10T16:04:39.880Z]	<Jessica_Ch'ng>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:04:50.974Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:04:54.376Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Welcome everybody to the January 10th 2022 verifiable credentials education task force meeting at our first meeting of the new year.
[2022-01-10T16:04:59.985Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'm going to go through the boilerplate stuff and then we'll dig into our agenda.
[2022-01-10T16:04:59.986Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: IP Note
[2022-01-10T16:05:14.108Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: First is our IP note anyone can participate in these calls however I'll substitute contributors any ccg work items must be members of the ccg with full IPR agreement signed.
[2022-01-10T16:05:18.445Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The link to join community.
[2022-01-10T16:05:19.862Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2022-01-10T16:05:28.501Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2022-01-10T16:05:34.746Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Do you have a W3 account I'll give you the request link for that and then also is a link to the w3c community contributor license agreement.
[2022-01-10T16:05:36.986Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'll put in the chat as well.
[2022-01-10T16:05:38.328Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2022-01-10T16:05:42.009Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:05:42.010Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Call Notes
[2022-01-10T16:05:43.496Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Call Notes
[2022-01-10T16:05:46.993Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: These minutes and recording of everything said in this call are archived.
[2022-01-10T16:05:51.183Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Archive these meetings here with the link in the chops.
[2022-01-10T16:05:51.341Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2022-01-10T16:05:58.166Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We use chat or IRC speakers during the call as well to take minutes.
[2022-01-10T16:05:58.211Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:06:10.626Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The minutes are happening automatically now but we do use a queue system for speakersand what we do for this is when you'd like to add yourself to the queue you type q+ in the chat.
[2022-01-10T16:06:11.249Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2022-01-10T16:06:19.442Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	I'm not hearing Kerri-- is it just a problem on my side?
[2022-01-10T16:06:19.752Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q_
[2022-01-10T16:06:22.096Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2022-01-10T16:06:22.816Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Like so and you'll see it added me to the queue and then if you want to remove yourself from the queue if you change your mind or someone else already said what you wanted to say just put in a q-
[2022-01-10T16:06:23.413Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:06:23.779Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:06:30.523Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: If you are looking for any more other IRC commands.
[2022-01-10T16:06:33.108Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/irc_ref.html
[2022-01-10T16:06:34.648Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Jitsi recognizes this so have a look at this link here.
[2022-01-10T16:06:43.075Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And if by chance you're calling in and not able to access the chat just simply asked us to put you in the queue and we'll do that.
[2022-01-10T16:06:45.180Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	I cannot hear you, I  restart, be back soon
[2022-01-10T16:06:45.181Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2022-01-10T16:06:50.009Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Ok next introductions is there anyone you to the call today that would like to introduce themselves?
[2022-01-10T16:07:01.088Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Ok it looks like the usual suspects on here. How about reintroductions?
[2022-01-10T16:07:06.482Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Anyone working on something new or haven't been on for a while and just want to reintroduce themselves?
[2022-01-10T16:07:17.200Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	can everyone else hear her?
[2022-01-10T16:07:17.201Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Announcements and Reminders
[2022-01-10T16:07:21.016Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Next is announcements and reminders.
[2022-01-10T16:07:25.047Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: This is a link to upcoming ccg meetings and events.
[2022-01-10T16:07:29.065Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2022-01-10T16:07:35.377Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	Yes, can hear Deb
[2022-01-10T16:07:35.544Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We don't have anything I'm speciality special topics plan right now with the regular meetings and take a look there especially for our Tuesday weekly calls.
[2022-01-10T16:07:57.436Z]	<Jessica_Ch'ng>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:08:01.979Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxxiv-34-2022a-tickets-22092229352
[2022-01-10T16:08:02.628Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:08:04.756Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:08:07.857Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Also another announcement is that registration is open for the internet identity Workshop number 3. They're planning to meet in person the spring April 26th the 28th at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View California. Super early bird registration is open now. I'm sure that if things change from it being in person to online I would say they have done this very successfully over the past year. 
[2022-01-10T16:08:09.000Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:08:09.375Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:08:11.472Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Checking the queue
[2022-01-10T16:08:27.745Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: One of the items in our topics list was to announce Jitsi updates
[2022-01-10T16:08:34.322Z]	<Marty_Reed>	LERN meeting this afternoon registration at this link https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZYld-qsrTkjHdEX8FS2r0Jusq3zxEhz0inT
[2022-01-10T16:08:34.649Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I didn't ask for a scribe because the transcription now turns on automatically when a meeting is being recorded.
[2022-01-10T16:08:41.069Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: It uses Google speech API. We're going to try this out.
[2022-01-10T16:08:46.738Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: You probably can see it in the chat.

[2022-01-10T16:09:00.573Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I want to give a really big thank you to Manu Sporny and his company Digital Bazaar for setting this up for supporting it.
[2022-01-10T16:09:07.127Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: They've done really great work providing the tools and maintenance for.
[2022-01-10T16:09:11.570Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The tools supporting and communicating our community's efforts transparently and globally as possible.
[2022-01-10T16:09:14.408Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	IMS Digital Credential Summit (Feb. 28th - March 2nd) https://web.cvent.com/event/00915a67-4e78-492d-bc08-625f3534ea13
[2022-01-10T16:09:16.744Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:09:21.850Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	thank you!
[2022-01-10T16:09:22.905Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	awww, thanks Kerri :)
[2022-01-10T16:09:24.784Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Without that I don't know how we get all this done so I just want to make sure that Manu knows that we really appreciate this. A couple of other Jitsi updates.
[2022-01-10T16:09:37.795Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Jitsi version updated to hopefully to fix the recent issues with the latest Google Chrome release. I don't know if you recall that some of some folks are having sound issues and this is fix app.
[2022-01-10T16:09:48.550Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: They've added in polls which any of you can do. If you go to the chat and you'll see a tab to the right for the polls.
[2022-01-10T16:09:58.291Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:09:58.529Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:09:59.228Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I don't know what we'll use that for yet but we could try it out we could think about it.].
[2022-01-10T16:10:09.968Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Then also other updates include a YouTube video sharing and synchronize playback and also audio sharing from the application or browser tab when doing screen sharing.
[2022-01-10T16:10:16.666Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:10:23.729Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: This is some great improvements and I for one think it's really great that we don't have to manually scribe. I know that's kind of an awkward part of the meeting.
[2022-01-10T16:10:30.393Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We'll do our best if it doesn't make any sense to you we can make edits to the logs.
[2022-01-10T16:10:31.383Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:10:32.387Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:10:40.951Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Welcome to our new chairs Dmitri & Simone who will be in the rotation to host meetings and be working on planning agendas.
[2022-01-10T16:11:06.157Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:11:08.218Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey Manu - transcribing is working okay so far I think.
[2022-01-10T16:11:16.823Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah I so carry idea it's it's it's operating just fine everything's nominal said I'm going to go ahead and drop now.
[2022-01-10T16:11:41.346Z]	<FN34c13859b5487058880f2c6f86247643>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:11:43.336Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	I have no audio and it's likely me (Firefox) so I'm likely to drop - sorry, looks like a good crowd
[2022-01-10T16:11:43.783Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	+1 on auto-scribing !! Makes it less intimidating for non-native english speakers to join.
[2022-01-10T16:11:45.106Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Something to keep in mind when you stop the recording you have to also stop the transcriber.
[2022-01-10T16:11:45.396Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you.
[2022-01-10T16:11:48.960Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:11:50.566Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	I have no audio either
[2022-01-10T16:11:56.333Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay so I see Timothy you have no audio.
[2022-01-10T16:12:01.753Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: This is what we're just talking about. My suggestion would be to switch to Firefox.
[2022-01-10T16:12:05.670Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:12:10.968Z]	<manu>	If people continue to have issues w/ audio -- let us know which browser version and OS you're using.
[2022-01-10T16:12:11.131Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:12:16.498Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: When you have a chance could you let me know what version of Chrome you're using so I can get some feedback on that. 
[2022-01-10T16:12:24.325Z]	<manu>	We tested 14 different combinations, but can't be sure we got every combination
[2022-01-10T16:12:27.267Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	I hung up and came back in and then I could hear
[2022-01-10T16:12:32.746Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:12:32.774Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	If you can't hear please try firefox and then let me know what browser and version you are using.
[2022-01-10T16:12:41.718Z]	<manu>	We know that Safari and Firefox now work better than they did... we also support dial-in via voice.
[2022-01-10T16:12:44.376Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks Deb
[2022-01-10T16:12:45.646Z]	<David_Ward>	I could not hear using OSX Chrome 97.0.4692.71 and had to switch to Firefox.
[2022-01-10T16:12:55.693Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:12:59.677Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you for your notes in the chat and about audio issues. We'll take it from there.
[2022-01-10T16:13:02.102Z]	<Phil_Barker>	I hear nothing on Chromium
[2022-01-10T16:13:03.043Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Using Firefox 95.0.2 but no luck -heard "recording is on" announcement but nothing more.
[2022-01-10T16:13:09.826Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Anyone who can hear me please text yes or no.
[2022-01-10T16:13:13.832Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Please switch to firefox
[2022-01-10T16:13:19.630Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Is there anyone else who is hearing me could you tell me if you are.
[2022-01-10T16:13:22.276Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	I can hear you
[2022-01-10T16:13:22.469Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	I hear you
[2022-01-10T16:13:24.373Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And the transcriber is picking me up.
[2022-01-10T16:13:24.583Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Yes I can hear you..
[2022-01-10T16:13:28.599Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: And I'm on Firefox.
[2022-01-10T16:13:29.014Z]	<Phil_Barker>	I don't have Firefox
[2022-01-10T16:13:32.303Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you
[2022-01-10T16:13:33.200Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Yeah I did have to switch off of Chrome.
[2022-01-10T16:13:37.123Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Yep.
[2022-01-10T16:13:40.998Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'm on Chrome version 96.1.
[2022-01-10T16:13:46.962Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: This is what I'm on right now.
[2022-01-10T16:13:50.358Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And it's working okay.
[2022-01-10T16:13:52.335Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Keri version of chrome: Version 96.0.4664.110
[2022-01-10T16:13:56.268Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	Working for me on Chrome: Version 96.0.4664.110 (Official Build) (x86_64)
[2022-01-10T16:13:56.669Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Yeah it's working fine for Firefox.
[2022-01-10T16:13:58.523Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	I'm on Chrome Version 96.0.4664.110
[2022-01-10T16:13:59.599Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	Phil Barker: do you have Safari?
[2022-01-10T16:14:02.391Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay.
[2022-01-10T16:14:06.370Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And I we can try again.
[2022-01-10T16:14:14.499Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: They wait a couple minutes late everybody let me know if you can hear.
[2022-01-10T16:14:16.250Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:14:24.422Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Yeah I see a lot of people dropping off and got back come back on soon maybe wait a minute.
[2022-01-10T16:14:28.947Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	how about a poll to see who can hear?
[2022-01-10T16:14:32.080Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I may give it a few minutes I'm just going to sit here for a minute and left let this settle down a little.
[2022-01-10T16:14:37.450Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Are there Scooter used to call Dad.
[2022-01-10T16:14:51.197Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	I'm on Chrome 97.0.4692.71 and all good here!
[2022-01-10T16:14:52.153Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	LOL
[2022-01-10T16:14:53.731Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Are there Scooter used to call Dad that that is an interesting interpretation.
[2022-01-10T16:14:55.683Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:14:58.052Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:15:00.120Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yes.
[2022-01-10T16:15:05.619Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: That's it.
[2022-01-10T16:15:17.234Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I added and added Apple give audio or don't have audio click yes with imagine the people who are dropping off probably.
[2022-01-10T16:15:22.855Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:15:23.225Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Adamant.
[2022-01-10T16:15:24.278Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart: Well and then just detected the other way around can you all hear me.
[2022-01-10T16:15:27.612Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yes.
[2022-01-10T16:15:27.806Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Yep.
[2022-01-10T16:15:27.867Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	Switch to Firefox works
[2022-01-10T16:15:30.790Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: We can have dinner.
[2022-01-10T16:15:47.975Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Going to have to be a little bit more articulate I guess.
[2022-01-10T16:15:51.376Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Yes.
[2022-01-10T16:15:54.235Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'm going to get going I think most folks are coming back on.
[2022-01-10T16:15:54.235Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> Topic: Use Cases
[2022-01-10T16:16:01.667Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And the next topic is Use Cases
[2022-01-10T16:16:14.158Z]	<Karl>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:16:15.953Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Over the past year we collected quite a few use cases in github and then we started using a new template in Google Google Drive.
[2022-01-10T16:16:23.586Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:16:25.767Z]	<Phil>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:16:28.469Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	link to github issues for use cases: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-ed-use-cases/issues
[2022-01-10T16:16:44.516Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Link to the google drive: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1oim1YsUzBuFBsGbtue_5yfBXEkA8Mp6A
[2022-01-10T16:16:47.243Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I've grabbed the ones that were either sent to our mailing list or we're presented here on this call.
[2022-01-10T16:16:55.553Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:17:02.106Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: In no way is this a finite list but the co-chairs have decided that it'd be best to start translating these into the cases report where we can view them and Aggregate and then make additions and that they're together.
[2022-01-10T16:17:05.279Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: So that they're not all over the place.
[2022-01-10T16:17:13.295Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The format of the document we're going to be working on is in this doc:.
[2022-01-10T16:17:22.103Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O98lt85PS8ozyMtKQMPdZPLnzpNI30bEgYH1Dq-C-IQ/edit#heading=h.a4epu7z5cx2z
[2022-01-10T16:17:22.819Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We could tailor this to meet the needs of our task force.
[2022-01-10T16:17:28.500Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	Joining from mobile solved the issue while I update Firefox.

[2022-01-10T16:17:37.046Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	vc-use cases doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1O98lt85PS8ozyMtKQMPdZPLnzpNI30bEgYH1Dq-C-IQ/edit#heading=h.a4epu7z5cx2z
[2022-01-10T16:17:44.374Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Aiming for is to get something for vc-edu that looks something like this.
[2022-01-10T16:17:48.263Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: EPC.
[2022-01-10T16:17:50.175Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	VC Use Cases doc: https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-use-cases/
[2022-01-10T16:17:57.496Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:18:05.030Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: we're going to try and complete this by the end of February.
[2022-01-10T16:18:24.904Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Is going to be helpful to other verticals that are seeking employment PCS but also provide the scaffolding that we need to build out the vc edu model recommendations.
[2022-01-10T16:18:27.215Z]	<Karl>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:18:48.091Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: It could be that the data model recommendations may not need all the needs of the use cases but it could address what we know at this point in time and it's really hard to build a model doc without some kind of documentation. This is part of our Charter and also part of the work items that we set forth like a long time ago.
[2022-01-10T16:19:19.571Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'm going to start with that this week so I'm just going to get them in there in some form or another they may link to the actual documents or or what have you been I'm just going to get them in there and then next week we can look at that and take it from there and see you maybe what's missing or who wants to jump in so every week until we we get this done. We're going to start our meetings with these updates.
[2022-01-10T16:19:35.827Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Everyone will be welcome to make comments in the doc and anyone who wants to make even more of an active contribution to it you just let me know and we'll set you up as an editor.
[2022-01-10T16:19:50.516Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The only reason to not just open up and make everyone as editor is just sort of to maintain some control of the flow the process but everyone is welcome to be an editor if you'd like too.
[2022-01-10T16:19:53.977Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:19:55.274Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And that's what I have so far for use cases and I just check the queue.
[2022-01-10T16:19:56.467Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:20:01.260Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Anybody have any thoughts about that about that process or any feedback.
[2022-01-10T16:20:07.146Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2022-01-10T16:20:18.024Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Simone I see that you were here.
[2022-01-10T16:20:19.937Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Can you hear us okay?
[2022-01-10T16:20:25.891Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: And.
[2022-01-10T16:20:31.397Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Oh thank you.
[2022-01-10T16:20:37.809Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marty_Reed
[2022-01-10T16:20:45.309Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Well so I just want to get a feel for how you want to mature the use cases I mean.
[2022-01-10T16:20:52.834Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: What wait what is your thoughts on the process.
[2022-01-10T16:20:59.799Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Like two or three weeks is stays open and then.
[2022-01-10T16:21:04.947Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Oh you mean as far as like how long it will take.
[2022-01-10T16:21:05.286Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Yeah.
[2022-01-10T16:21:14.412Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I was thinking it was like a month in so they may be around this time in February that we'd be pretty close to getting this where we need to be where we do a final review like maybe the first week of March.
[2022-01-10T16:21:35.419Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: I'm happy to contribute as an editor.
[2022-01-10T16:21:42.833Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	I'm happy to contribute
[2022-01-10T16:21:44.755Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	Weird - Firefox didn't work. Chrome does.... (Version 96.0.4664.110)
[2022-01-10T16:21:55.990Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you. awesome .I'll add you I know that there is overlap there's a lot of use case writing going on at other standard troops and also other networks like T3 so there will be a lot of that and I'll just bring it in together and make sure it's covered.
[2022-01-10T16:21:59.301Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:22:18.038Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Dimitri and Simone is it okay with you if we move on to the next topic.
[2022-01-10T16:22:25.432Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: To round off the use cases part, we aware of use cases existing in other communities and make sure that we have some consistency. 
[2022-01-10T16:23:42.736Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Dmitri do you have anything else to add about use cases?
[2022-01-10T16:23:45.145Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: I don't but I'll look forward to it though.
[2022-01-10T16:23:55.546Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay.
[2022-01-10T16:23:56.367Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	Happy to contribute to use cases, as well.
[2022-01-10T16:23:56.367Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> Topic: 2022 Planning
[2022-01-10T16:24:20.983Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Simone, Dimitri and I got up to speed on the co-chair responsibilities over the break and we had a chance to spend a little time planning and getting a list together the topics and meeting agendas for the coming year. Because we are also working towards VC modeling many of these topics are going to feed into that but also a part of our charter is to learn about the work that's going on in an ecosystem and help learn from the experts inn our space so we are trying to gather a list of topics where we can move forward on those things.  So this is the list of things right here I'll put in the chat.
[2022-01-10T16:24:46.094Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	LInk to vc-edu topics: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1NlO4mKV31NWE4RKQ3R_8kVv0AEaz4VkWSW0uLJmPLmI/edit#gid=0
[2022-01-10T16:24:55.009Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And I can open up in my screen to on so I thought we could do is go through this list together.
[2022-01-10T16:25:10.638Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And then after we're done going through this list Simone is going to set up a way for us to prioritize and then he'll get back to us on how that'll work later.
[2022-01-10T16:25:11.339Z]	<Karl>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:25:27.613Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay you see my screen.
[2022-01-10T16:25:34.578Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you.
[2022-01-10T16:25:41.071Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Simone & Dmitri may fill in topics descriptions as we go and jump in on the topics that they're familiar with. Play guy into feeling in descriptions so if you feel like I'm typing as we go.
[2022-01-10T16:26:01.338Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: This is the list that we have so far. I would welcome anyone here to add to this list and if you do if you could just put your contact info so we can reach out to you about it.
[2022-01-10T16:26:15.300Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The first one we have is internationalization.
[2022-01-10T16:26:21.270Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Simone or Dmitri if you don't mind I'm going to call on you because I think you both have some specific thoughts there.
[2022-01-10T16:26:22.938Z]	<Tayken_(LEF)>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:26:23.743Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Type in description.
[2022-01-10T16:26:31.943Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: Top of my priorities. I see a lot of work happening outside North America that is connected to what we're doing. Make sure we have liaisons with work in Canada and Europe. Invite them to keep us up to date on development. Hoping auto-scribe will help with this so that non-native speakers felt intimidated scribing.
[2022-01-10T16:26:39.372Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: Simone will take a lead in making sure that we're aligned. Reach out to him if you are interested or have ideas or thoughts about this.
[2022-01-10T16:27:19.310Z]	<Tayken_(LEF)>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:27:44.646Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:27:45.538Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: Switch out.
[2022-01-10T16:27:56.251Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Part of this is probably also considering non-english language.
[2022-01-10T16:28:02.851Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And how that fits into this. Dmitiri, I was wondering if you were looking at that angle of it too.
[2022-01-10T16:28:14.828Z]	<Karl>	present+i
[2022-01-10T16:28:14.911Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I know this comes up quite a bit in open badges like informing what language is informing the validator.
[2022-01-10T16:28:15.234Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Sure.
[2022-01-10T16:28:21.702Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Something like that.
[2022-01-10T16:28:21.776Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Does that make sense to you.
[2022-01-10T16:28:26.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: thank you.
[2022-01-10T16:28:34.895Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Does anyone have anything else they want to say on internationalization?
[2022-01-10T16:28:36.947Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:29:04.201Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Accessibility so there's a lot of different angles in accessibility. This would probably be more than one meeting. Internationalization would be too. Accessibility we have different angles we have we have the angle that it is compatible for folks who aren't able to see or hear the internet etc.
[2022-01-10T16:29:13.290Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	variously abled folks
[2022-01-10T16:29:41.892Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Addressing other sorts of government standards for accessibility. So there is addressing that then there's also accessibility of the technology which we can't necessarily address in VC but there are things that we could recommend that could be done like for instance there are some process using a paper that lead to VCs.
[2022-01-10T16:29:42.031Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Clearly I don't know enough.
[2022-01-10T16:29:47.821Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	Diwala would be good to invite into the accessibility conversation re: technologies.
[2022-01-10T16:29:48.446Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The topic but I know it's critical that we look into and I knew I would like to learn more about it so that we can do this.
[2022-01-10T16:29:49.563Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:30:04.961Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Sorry to do this but put you on the spot a little bit to talk about accessibility.
[2022-01-10T16:30:10.017Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: Okay.
[2022-01-10T16:30:17.528Z]	<John_Kuo>	q+
[2022-01-10T16:30:32.322Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: I think that you described it pretty well there are some rules that I think are important for us to discuss from a compliance with just US regulations. This is really important for the education task force because working with educational institutions means products that they use.
[2022-01-10T16:30:58.270Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: Anything that they offer needs to be fully compliant so I think that's like a key aspect of it but I think like putting aside the term accessibility there is to your other point about what happens when people need to access any of the tools that are created that are against these standards and I think those are all really interesting conversations probably separate but.
[2022-01-10T16:31:02.636Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: Happy to do think about this more once it gets a little closer to that day.
[2022-01-10T16:31:03.881Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	q+
[2022-01-10T16:31:05.243Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Awesome thank you very much.
[2022-01-10T16:31:11.831Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Accessibility / access in the list.
[2022-01-10T16:31:12.108Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:31:18.030Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: John you are in the queue.
[2022-01-10T16:31:22.072Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack John_Kuo
[2022-01-10T16:31:39.158Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: Yeah I wanted to mention accessibility should also be in one consideration of it should be access to technology as well there is the whole 5-way compliance and could regulation stuff and we're taking that into consideration during exercise but the other thing that we're going to be.
[2022-01-10T16:31:46.261Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: focusing on not Not everyone will have the ability you know free access to 
[2022-01-10T16:31:49.264Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: leverage the technologies
[2022-01-10T16:31:56.805Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: So we should have at least some standards are guidelines around them.
[2022-01-10T16:32:01.737Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: for socioeconomic reasons.
[2022-01-10T16:32:02.113Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:32:03.013Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you.
[2022-01-10T16:32:06.802Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Phil Long? 
[2022-01-10T16:32:07.343Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long_(T3): Yes hi can you hear me.
[2022-01-10T16:32:11.291Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I can hear you.
[2022-01-10T16:32:14.397Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phillip_Long_(T3)
[2022-01-10T16:32:35.366Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long_(T3): Okay I just a plus one on that last comment from John and I know you mentioned it is one of the dimensions of accessibility but from Sharon's list of wallet providers conversations with the DiWalla who have primarily focused on the African Community in Nigeria Uganda in that area.
[2022-01-10T16:32:57.698Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long_(T3): Suggest we invite their cto to participate because they're addressing this at the back end in ways that would be worthwhile for us to hear about. John just alluded to the fact they're trying to do that at the back end of a tln and pocket as well so just a suggestion.
[2022-01-10T16:33:05.801Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: That's great thank you and making notes on that Mattr they did something similar like this with vaccinations.
[2022-01-10T16:33:06.391Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	We also thought the Tykn wallet gives an interesting approach.
[2022-01-10T16:33:17.694Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you.
[2022-01-10T16:33:18.451Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:33:22.717Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Moving on to the next one.
[2022-01-10T16:33:28.795Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: A multiple issuers. the description we have here is recommended practices.
[2022-01-10T16:33:31.482Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: expressing multiple issuers.
[2022-01-10T16:33:35.535Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Example to cooperating universities are issuing a VC
[2022-01-10T16:33:39.943Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:33:42.519Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Is there anyone that wants to explain that a little more.
[2022-01-10T16:33:46.137Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:34:21.406Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Sure I can explain it and so the topic was brought up I think it was last year or maybe the year before by Anthony. Who asked a question on the VC spec on the VC data model spec repository of in the cases where there are two joint issuers not just two different universities can I share the same type of potential but specifically say it's an exchange student and it is specifically two issuers of a specific credential. How should that be expressed in the data model. 
[2022-01-10T16:34:30.073Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: There are several options.
[2022-01-10T16:34:33.104Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Multiple signatures is one option.
[2022-01-10T16:34:41.055Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: I know there's there's been recent discussion on the mailing list about that on the email list specifically.
[2022-01-10T16:34:49.627Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Option and I over on the links.
[2022-01-10T16:35:05.120Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	q+ to comment on multiple issuers
[2022-01-10T16:35:12.217Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Multiple issuers supported? https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/741
[2022-01-10T16:35:16.727Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: The spreadsheets I give a link to the pull request where the original discussion has happened another option is to create a joint entities would still a single issuer but composing consisting of multiple universities so multiple signatures composite entity versus other approaches.
[2022-01-10T16:35:21.122Z]	<John_Kuo>	q+
[2022-01-10T16:35:27.576Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: All of that I should be discussed and decided and we can give a best practice recommendation off what to do in those cases.
[2022-01-10T16:35:29.914Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:35:31.003Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Great thank you for the explanation.
[2022-01-10T16:35:34.246Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Simone
[2022-01-10T16:35:39.236Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Simone_Ravaioli,
[2022-01-10T16:35:40.338Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: Comment on multiple issuers. Europe does have a use case around joint degrees that are already popular around the EU education area but there is something else in the works. This notion of a European degree being drafted by the European Commission as we speak so the ideally this emergent university consortium that are contributing to the design and issuing of credentials. Therefore we may have use cases coming from Europe targeting this multiple issuers topic more and more. 
[2022-01-10T16:36:32.878Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:36:36.697Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you.
[2022-01-10T16:36:43.539Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack John_Kuo
[2022-01-10T16:37:13.288Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:37:13.603Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: Might be a t Hird way to handle this thinking about with respect to a credential in that you could issue a related credential to it that's a recognition so that it would be the equivalent so there's only one original credentials and then leverage a relationship they say okay this issue separate University but linked to the initial issuer and considered to be equivalent and they could be presented.
[2022-01-10T16:37:14.515Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	that's a great point, John!
[2022-01-10T16:37:18.769Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: Leveraging elationship that's embedded just just another possible option.
[2022-01-10T16:37:35.871Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Absolutely and actually Simone and John it may be very helpful to put those comments into the issue that us that it was set up by Anthony. the one that I just put in the chat.
[2022-01-10T16:37:58.624Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: So I actually that issue has been closed but I know that the newly chartered VC data model 2.0 working group actually has is tracking multiple issuers as one work item so I think we should open a new issue with these suggestions.
[2022-01-10T16:38:03.054Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Good idea. I'm making a note follow up on that.
[2022-01-10T16:38:06.687Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	About European Degree - https://eua.eu/resources/expert-voices/186:possible-scenarios-on-the-path-towards-a-european-degree.html
[2022-01-10T16:38:16.341Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	q+
[2022-01-10T16:38:16.426Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:38:26.693Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phillip_Long_(T3)
[2022-01-10T16:38:41.361Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long_(T3): Yeah just want to point out this sounds very similar to endorsements and perhaps Marty might be interested in commenting on this but it sounds very much like endorsements in the teacher certification round.
[2022-01-10T16:38:44.212Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long_(T3): Institution to another institutions.
[2022-01-10T16:39:01.813Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long_(T3): Potential and I just want to highlight that overlap because it's a different use case but it sounds like it is in terms of an implementation strategy comparable.
[2022-01-10T16:39:02.732Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: It makes sense too thank you.
[2022-01-10T16:39:03.408Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:39:08.749Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Moving on to the next one keeping an eye on the clock here.
[2022-01-10T16:39:18.384Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: VPs versus nested VC's in education context. This comes up quite a bit.
[2022-01-10T16:39:29.352Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Marty, Phil, and who else were all working on the complex credentials and also has come up the IMS CLR group.
[2022-01-10T16:39:36.641Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2022-01-10T16:39:53.968Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I put it here because I think somethings have them figured out but I think we need many more discussions and just more understanding of VP's overall and like how they you know sometimes that people have about VC's what it means if you have nested PCS in terms of identity as there's a lot of questions and a lot of misunderstandings or also a lot of ways it can get implemented that haven't been documented.
[2022-01-10T16:40:08.217Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: So it's just a lot to to talk about and we probably should really dig into this and understand it best so that we can figure out what to recommend to folks and so that we can all know what to do.
[2022-01-10T16:40:13.848Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:40:17.796Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: See if there's anyone have anything on that topic.
[2022-01-10T16:40:21.321Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Yes I think a key piece to this 
[2022-01-10T16:40:24.156Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Is the ID of persistence.
[2022-01-10T16:40:24.389Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marty_Reed
[2022-01-10T16:40:44.197Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: And how that whatever whatever that object is how it persists beyond the initial presentation the original initial originating issuance.
[2022-01-10T16:40:46.139Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: That's one area.
[2022-01-10T16:40:55.420Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Should be your part of that discussion is persistence and then and then to Phil's point earlier.
[2022-01-10T16:40:59.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: multiple issuers really embedded issuers.
[2022-01-10T16:41:17.741Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: are really overlays even from a K-12 perspective of the state issuing a transcript on behalf of a district that is authored by a school. A lot of nuance there.
[2022-01-10T16:41:31.675Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Also bring up the transcript is called the transcript supplement or the diploma supplement from the EU perspective.
[2022-01-10T16:41:34.665Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: As well part of this are.
[2022-01-10T16:41:43.172Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: That's good thank you I just want to say I'm really excited about this Auto transcriber so that we have notes later.
[2022-01-10T16:41:44.488Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:41:46.218Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Have notes later.
[2022-01-10T16:41:55.712Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: If no one has anything else on this move on to credential display logic.
[2022-01-10T16:42:00.036Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Dmitri, I believe you added this one to the list.
[2022-01-10T16:42:10.691Z]	<John_Kuo>	q+
[2022-01-10T16:42:15.191Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Yeah so one of the questions that we often get asked by wallet implementers and by issuers is so say we have a credential let's say a course completion or graduation credential.
[2022-01-10T16:42:21.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: And how do we give suggestions on how wallet formats
[2022-01-10T16:42:22.990Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: the display.
[2022-01-10T16:42:30.971Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Because at the moment each wallet essentially decides for themselves how to format a given credential.
[2022-01-10T16:42:37.030Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: But it would be nice to have the ability to.
[2022-01-10T16:42:53.684Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: help the credential be displayed in a similar way across different devices across different companies wallets for example the open badges that allows an image to be embedded in the credential.
[2022-01-10T16:42:56.701Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	comment on this interface-- it sometimes makes my laptop overheat, and today seems to be worse-- I don't know if that could be related to the updates
[2022-01-10T16:42:59.603Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: So various walls can just display that image.
[2022-01-10T16:43:06.171Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: There's other issues more complicated than that because a lot of times you need it.
[2022-01-10T16:43:13.696Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Template you know the name and University.
[2022-01-10T16:43:21.089Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: And some good Explorations about it and this group is well-positioned to make recommendations about it.
[2022-01-10T16:43:28.633Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:43:28.765Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: thank you. Did you also add... checking the queue
[2022-01-10T16:43:32.135Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	+1 to recs re: credential display in wallets
[2022-01-10T16:43:39.118Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack John_Kuo
[2022-01-10T16:43:53.314Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: We're obviously struggling with this a little bit as well as one of our Solutions if it's not too much individual credentials play for which we actually are trying to create a standard set of you know ux rules for.
[2022-01-10T16:44:11.700Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: Your lifetimes credentials to be useful to the user and user-friendly way are not presented atomically presented in a group or a collection so we're trying to create a sort of echo some collection.
[2022-01-10T16:44:12.116Z]	<Nate_Otto_(Badgr/CSky)>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:44:29.159Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: Sports both presentation of the credential by presentation at the u.s. little as well kind of embedding implicit display rules into the business objects collection what.
[2022-01-10T16:44:46.430Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: Dr. collection there would be for a class you that could be two primary credentials of all 21 would be in Roma credential the other would-be completion natural subjects during the status of whether or not the class was completed.
[2022-01-10T16:44:50.770Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:45:15.677Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: Another would-be you know since we have by coconut construction skill credentials all connections with the same type would be the same collection but no they come from possibly different sources how is all that organized The Collection is intended to both support like a group presentation you know for.
[2022-01-10T16:45:20.353Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: To support some ux play trolls.
[2022-01-10T16:45:27.270Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:45:27.945Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Smg4 saying that it's great.
[2022-01-10T16:45:30.160Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Along the lines of display logic is error logging
[2022-01-10T16:45:33.365Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay integration with existing systems.
[2022-01-10T16:45:40.793Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2022-01-10T16:45:50.840Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: I'm not sure if I did but essentially it's a lot of topics to discuss on.
[2022-01-10T16:46:05.133Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: So let's say we come up with credentials data models and protocols how do we integrated with existing Learning Management systems with existing databases running on the University's.
[2022-01-10T16:46:10.966Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yeah and that's actually a big topic.
[2022-01-10T16:46:13.871Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Like what.
[2022-01-10T16:46:20.692Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	That encompasses university integration  but also HR system implementation for businesses
[2022-01-10T16:46:23.102Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I think we need to do because we're going to have to do some kind of bridging.
[2022-01-10T16:46:31.104Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: An example of that is using email addresses.
[2022-01-10T16:46:40.342Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: An influential subject IDs and how email addresses are are ubiquitous and well understood.
[2022-01-10T16:46:50.671Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Kathy well into the VC bottle but you know what can we do to make that work in a different things like the DC.
[2022-01-10T16:47:03.735Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Having both email address and possibly print the subject it in the BC so there's all sorts of things to consider there just to start things I can think of my head.
[2022-01-10T16:47:03.849Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:47:07.868Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	q+
[2022-01-10T16:47:13.830Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marty_Reed
[2022-01-10T16:47:20.010Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Well I don't know if this is right place for this but also when I think about existing system out something about regulatory requirements and.
[2022-01-10T16:47:24.083Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Consider
[2022-01-10T16:47:41.315Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Licensing scenario the the PDF must be visually inspected by a license or specialist in order to verify that they believe that that presentation is true and hasn't been modified so.
[2022-01-10T16:47:44.495Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Regulatory.
[2022-01-10T16:47:49.150Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Is a big topic that will.
[2022-01-10T16:47:51.596Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Emerge.
[2022-01-10T16:47:54.616Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:48:00.740Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: That's a great point and I think the next item of governance touches on that as well regulatory pressures.
[2022-01-10T16:48:05.833Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Just before we get there I just wanted to call on Simone who is in the queue right now
[2022-01-10T16:48:09.542Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Simone_Ravaioli
[2022-01-10T16:48:11.454Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: Well I was going where Dmitri was
[2022-01-10T16:48:20.538Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: with connection to the governance piece.
[2022-01-10T16:48:21.419Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	It's both an integration issue and a training issue on the part of these regulators.
[2022-01-10T16:48:25.803Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: another exiting system could be the regulatory environment of the governance and trust of issuers
[2022-01-10T16:48:35.360Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: How does that play technically with the integrations piece but also politically the pure governance aspect so there is a connection in the way we think about existing systems.
[2022-01-10T16:48:45.668Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: It goes from LMSes to registries that may exist 
[2022-01-10T16:48:45.996Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	Transcriber is having trouble LOL
[2022-01-10T16:48:53.024Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: or regulatory environments.
[2022-01-10T16:49:12.656Z]	<John_Kuo>	q+
[2022-01-10T16:49:14.506Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yeah that's very true actually all around I think that when I put governance in here I was specifically thinking of trust Registries and topic related specifically to VC's and it could be expanded to include this
[2022-01-10T16:49:16.270Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:49:26.137Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack John_Kuo
[2022-01-10T16:49:29.410Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: For me I'll be this is very closely related with the previous row your governance.
[2022-01-10T16:49:45.299Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: You know Educational Systems are made up of lots of different fiefdoms and usually there's not a sole owner to even the data that's needed for issuing a lot of these credentials.
[2022-01-10T16:49:49.294Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: and there's lots of internal regulations.
[2022-01-10T16:50:06.585Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:50:08.727Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Kuo: Around like who owns the data what you're allowed to do with it so just navigating that Labyrinth being a relationship is with each educational institution and the governance that the institution is going to be a big challenge.
[2022-01-10T16:50:12.230Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:50:17.717Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We have about 10 minutes left to get through these. .
[2022-01-10T16:50:20.302Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	Data ownership is probably a separate issue
[2022-01-10T16:50:22.169Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Prioritizing is.
[2022-01-10T16:50:25.153Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: So protocols.
[2022-01-10T16:50:32.768Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We also talked about this to that much of the work of the VC is about the data model but what about the protocols.
[2022-01-10T16:50:39.930Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And there's a lot of work being done in that and how do we how do we settle on that in education.
[2022-01-10T16:50:44.883Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Dmitri did you have anything where you want to add on that other than what's in the description.
[2022-01-10T16:50:47.004Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:50:51.172Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: I think that's.
[2022-01-10T16:50:56.770Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Bridging Tech.
[2022-01-10T16:51:08.903Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: W3c email and this is also related to existing systems but slightly different. slightly different though.
[2022-01-10T16:51:11.154Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Same Category.
[2022-01-10T16:51:13.859Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Yeah I think the combination of existing some systems and row 9 protocols.
[2022-01-10T16:51:19.675Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yeah okay let's get together in this area.
[2022-01-10T16:51:27.948Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: # 11 is image file handling I think this also ties into the display logic stuff.
[2022-01-10T16:51:32.107Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Do you guys think so.
[2022-01-10T16:51:33.171Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Agreed yup
[2022-01-10T16:51:37.697Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Also a big  topic.
[2022-01-10T16:51:40.852Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Also the revoking and refreshing of credential status.
[2022-01-10T16:51:52.293Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We want to be able to discuss I think it's pretty clear we have potential status there's different ways of doing that and there's also this newer concept of refreshing.
[2022-01-10T16:51:55.604Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And they're somewhat related.
[2022-01-10T16:52:00.754Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Number 13: context file for VC-EDU
[2022-01-10T16:52:10.921Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	Credential status is emerging as a big topic for the VC CCG, provoked recently by Anil.
[2022-01-10T16:52:21.580Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Something I've been wanting to discuss for a long time which is have a simple contacts file that is specific for vc-edu that could describe an achievement claim in a very simple way. maybe it could be used for other things that aren't being approached by other standards bodies yet. 
[2022-01-10T16:52:30.703Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: It could provide examples for those standards orgs who are looking to align with VC-EDU so I'm we like to visit that has a topic at some point.
[2022-01-10T16:52:35.081Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:52:39.129Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Checking the queue...
[2022-01-10T16:52:46.742Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I think 14 linking BC's and resources artifacts is.
[2022-01-10T16:52:49.492Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Is also similar to 11.
[2022-01-10T16:52:50.605Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Is that similar to 11? okay.
[2022-01-10T16:52:52.522Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Yeah.
[2022-01-10T16:52:56.240Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We'll clean up is this list before we do the prioritizing.
[2022-01-10T16:52:59.253Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Next - Lifehash
[2022-01-10T16:53:04.101Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Billy can hear.
[2022-01-10T16:53:08.680Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: II put this in here as really interesting topic.
[2022-01-10T16:53:12.988Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://lifehash.info/
[2022-01-10T16:53:21.888Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I think it's really cool and I'll just put the link in here and I bet there's really interesting ways that we could use this in education, It may not ever be part of the model or anything but it might inspiring in some way.
[2022-01-10T16:53:31.227Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: It is way to visually display a hash uniquely and pretty cool looking.
[2022-01-10T16:53:36.151Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'm not it. There's a video you should watch the video to learn about it more.
[2022-01-10T16:53:41.111Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:53:44.617Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We're almost there.
[2022-01-10T16:53:57.152Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: 16 is working with T3 and LERN on endorsements. Endorsements is something we could use in the model doc and potentially add to the VC-EDU context file.
[2022-01-10T16:54:01.657Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Phil Long, I think you may be the person to speak to this item.
[2022-01-10T16:54:01.867Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:54:06.164Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long_(T3): Yeah thanks thank you.
[2022-01-10T16:54:50.908Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Great thank you.
[2022-01-10T16:54:54.149Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long_(T3): Simply an attempt to try to pull together the different conversations in one place so that we're not having three different sets of them and respective silos. I know it's been a conversation at the HR open Community. I know it's been a conversation here,  a conversation at T3 and for all I know maybe in many others. so I think it would be wise to try to pull these things together and save ourselves some calendar time but also to bring together the different perspectives that these different organizations have as priorities and see if we can't work out a way to make endorsement work for everybody.
[2022-01-10T16:54:54.313Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long_(T3): You're right that this does relate to the previous conversations in a couple of different ways.

[2022-01-10T16:55:48.144Z]	<Transcriber>	Phillip_Long_(T3): Both in terms of complex issuance and things like that but the standard thing we're thinking about here is really in the context of an individual making an endorsement to another individual's credential to give credibility to or third-party verification for the assertion both corroborating what might be in the institutional issue credential for subject but also corroborating what might be in a self-sorted credential by an individual about something they've learned and and wanting to take advantage of external knowledgeable people for whom their attestation to that ended the subjects ability to do whatever it is,  is reinforced.
[2022-01-10T16:56:06.570Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay next on our list us wallet presentations. we really want to do a lot more of those this year. this is multiple teams or countries working on wallet pilots right now and we'd like to get more demonstrations and see what they're doing and how they're approaching of Education credentials.
[2022-01-10T16:56:13.593Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And then number 18 is pilot demonstration  - similarly.
[2022-01-10T16:56:39.826Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	What I don't see on the list is conformance testing - or guidance about test suites.
[2022-01-10T16:56:47.599Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yeah next week on our agenda, while we figuring out the prioritizing is a Julian Fraichot from Highland Credentials who's going to present on blockcerts and verifiable credentials. We'd like to do keep doing more of those to keep us all in the loop on the work that we're all doing. If you're interested in doing this please reach out to us. You can talk to me send a message to the mailing list, any which way and we'll get you on the calendar.
[2022-01-10T16:56:47.790Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Number 19
[2022-01-10T16:56:52.262Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: VC subjects and holders in EDU.
[2022-01-10T16:56:55.833Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I added this.
[2022-01-10T16:57:04.816Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: So we have concepts of Guardianship and the differences between like a subject of a credential and the holders of the credential.
[2022-01-10T16:57:12.234Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	Guardianship is its own topic
[2022-01-10T16:57:18.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And there's always like some tension in these topics and as with VP's and VC's it seems like this is one that we really should dig into from an edu perspective as well.
[2022-01-10T16:57:23.230Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:57:26.859Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Checking the queue to see if anyone has anything.
[2022-01-10T16:57:29.239Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Right now I know of at least one project that
[2022-01-10T16:57:35.689Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: is doing guardianship credentials so I can check in with them to see if they can join us.
[2022-01-10T16:57:36.012Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:58:00.999Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: A couple more here.  We really want to just like talk more about PII information, selective disclosure, what can go into these credentials and what should be protected, how does Selective disclosure work, which wallets are participating. So that's a topic definitely we should be talking about.
[2022-01-10T16:58:04.244Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Conformance testing.
[2022-01-10T16:58:07.737Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Did someone else here add conformance testing?
[2022-01-10T16:58:09.243Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:58:19.615Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: I just did Kerri. I picked it up from the chat where Phil mentioned it.
[2022-01-10T16:58:24.272Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	q+
[2022-01-10T16:58:24.943Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay.
[2022-01-10T16:58:32.568Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I think your guardianship I think kind of falls in with line number 19.
[2022-01-10T16:58:37.574Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Great.
[2022-01-10T16:58:44.915Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Simone, You're going to work out a way for us to prioritize these and let us know how we can do that.
[2022-01-10T16:58:51.079Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	Q-
[2022-01-10T16:58:54.379Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: Yep.
[2022-01-10T16:58:55.870Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-01-10T16:59:02.308Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: Exactly. SO I'm going to take this list, massage it a little bit, 
[2022-01-10T16:59:07.389Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: Dand turn it to something we can express a preference on ideally order the list in terms of priorities and that's what's going to help us keep the focus of the priorities straight.
[2022-01-10T16:59:14.668Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2022-01-10T16:59:15.273Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	thanks, great list!
[2022-01-10T16:59:20.355Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: That's awesome and don't worry if you're not ready to demonstrate. We'll get to that at some point. It doesn't need to be added to the list.
[2022-01-10T16:59:30.252Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay - so that's where we're headed and like I said next week we'll look forward to Julien Fraichot to presenting to us and we'll talk about use cases again.
[2022-01-10T16:59:38.671Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: That's great everybody. thank you so much. I'm interested to see how this chat transcription turned out.
[2022-01-10T16:59:42.900Z]	<Marty_Reed>	great work!
[2022-01-10T16:59:45.196Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Have a great week.
[2022-01-10T16:59:48.898Z]	<Phillip_Long_(T3)>	Cheers
[2022-01-10T16:59:51.932Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	thanks!
[2022-01-10T16:59:52.078Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you.

