Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-04-30/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-04-30/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-04-30.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2024-04-30

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Apr&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Harrison Tang, Bob Wyman, Will Abramson, Jennie M, Erica Connell, 
  Gregory Natran, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), Tim Bloomfield, Laura Paglione, Jeff O - 
  HumanOS, Nis Jespersen , Joe Andrieu, Dmitri Zagidulin, 
  Geun-Hyung Kim, Kaliya Young, pauld gs1, David I. Lehn, Mike Xu, 
  PL/T3, Alex H, Gerald Glickman, Rashmi Siravara

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: So hello everyone welcome to this week's uh w3c 
  reading so today uh we're going to hold a discussion in regards 
  to the ccg road map and uh know what why are people like joining 
  ccgs and the why should you join ccg as well as uh talk about how 
  do you kind of submit work items and what kind of work items we 
  want to work on so uh well later I will actually uh uh do a quick 
  presentation in regards to uh these topics and then uh moderated 
  discussions uh around uh the ccg road map uh but before that I 
  just want to quickly go through the agendas uh so first of all 
  just want to make sure that we respect code of conducts and 
  professional conduct uh just want to make sure that uh you know 
  we hold a respectful and constructive uh conversations.
Harrison_Tang: Um a quick note on the intellectual property uh 
  anyone can participate in these calls however all successive 
  contributions to any CCU work items must be members of the ccg 
  with full IPR agreement signed uh so make sure you have a w3c 
  account and if you have any questions regards to getting a w3c 
  account or uh the the IP notes uh just let any of the cultures 
  know.
Harrison_Tang: Uh these uh meetings are being automatically 
  recorded and transcribed uh we try to uh publish them uh within 
  the next uh day or 2 um so you can use uh GT chat uh to uh raise 
  questions uh so you can type in Q Plus to add yourself to the 
  queue uh and Q minus to remove uh you can type in Q question mark 
  uh to see who's in the queue.
Harrison_Tang: Hi just want to take a quick moment moment in 
  regards to introductions where reintroduction so if you're new to 
  the community or you haven't been active and want to uh re-engage 
  uh feel free to just uh unmute uh and introduce yourself.
Harrison_Tang: All right later uh.
Harrison_Tang: But will is the moderating the discussions on ccg 
  maybe he'll call on some people so just uh get prepared.
Harrison_Tang: All right um next uh announcements and reminders 
  uh any new announcements or reminders in regards to events or uh 
  new Publications.
Harrison_Tang: All right a quick uh preview uh in regards to the 
  upcoming meetings so today we're talking about ccg road map uh 
  holding the uh discussions around that uh next Tuesday May 7th uh 
  we will have monu to talk about parallel signatures in verifiable 
  credentials.
Harrison_Tang: And then the week after that we'll have the CEO of 
  Life uh to talk about global legal entity identifier and uh their 
  Foundation as well as their uh latest initiatives.
Harrison_Tang:  and then the.
Harrison_Tang: That on May 21st uh we will have the culture of 
  oawf credential format comparison group to talk about credential 
  format comparisons.
Harrison_Tang: And then the week after that we'll have a Neil 
  John to talk about the DHS de Department of Homeland Security's 
  uh technical implementation requirements for decentralized 
  identity.
Harrison_Tang: So that's the upcoming meetings.
Harrison_Tang: All right last calls for announcements and 
  reminders or introductions and reintroductions.
Harrison_Tang: All right and then the.
Harrison_Tang: Updates on the existing work items or maybe uh 
  will you can talk about that uh later in the discussion.
Harrison_Tang: I can ask your screen oh good.
Harrison_Tang: I can see it now yep.
Harrison_Tang: I'm I'm moderator Joe.
Joe Andrieu:  Okay thanks um yeah I just wanted to mention the VC 
  task force so the verifiable credentials work.
Joe Andrieu:  Actually came out of the ccg and it had stabilized 
  as a task force.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> A Task Force 
  is a subset of the CCG, typically being those who self-select to 
  work on one or more Work Items. It can be thought of like a 
  subcommittee.
Joe Andrieu:  The main reason is because you want to meet every 
  week like to have a regular rhythm um and I don't know how long 
  the VC task force works but that was how I first got involved um 
  and the the entire point was really to incubate to the point of 
  having a charter that could be adopted and so the community notes 
  that were developed alongside that like the VC use cases were 
  intended to eventually go to the working group so that was how we 
  have leveraged that in the past to good effect um assuming you 
  like verifiable credentials.
Harrison_Tang: Thanks Joe Kenn you're next.
Geun-Hyung Kim: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/charter/
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Um so I started the vceda you know we we could 
  have started work items in you know gone met sort of met within 
  the ccg meetings run it as a you know sort of like you asked for 
  a status on work items at the beginning kind of thing um but we 
  had enough of our own sort of momentum conversations we had to 
  have and um a set of work items and it is also that we didn't 
  know we were still sort of Designing what that would look like so 
  I'll put in the charter I think the main thing um it it to do 
  this it's good to make sure upfront you have a reasonable set of 
  people that that are really committed to participating in it um.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Manu called this Charter the best charter he'd 
  ever seen written so I probably should have retired after after 
  writing that but um so like being very clear about what your 
  intended deliverables are which uh how you relate to other 
  organizations so that you're not um you know sort of.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Overlapping too much so um so yeah that group 
  has been really successful um in terms of you know sort of just 
  figuring out which use cases they want to address um coming up 
  with data formats that are appropriate for it they've um you know 
  even promoted some of the work into IMS or now called 1 Ed Tech 
  um uh standards so um yeah that was the context on VCU.
Harrison_Tang: Uh by the way will um I think your your sound is a 
  little bit on the lighter side we cannot really see you.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Yeah we had for a while a practice in the ccg of 
  saying um the task forces must report out status with some 
  certain Cadence so um I don't know if that's done much anymore 
  but it was a good practice on both sides um yeah.
Harrison_Tang: Actually Ted Ted you're in the queue.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Yeah just 
  quickly um task force is roughly like a subcommittee um we'll get 
  together outside of the main sessions to.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Work on a 
  work item 1 or more work items um whether or not the task force 
  reports out its results to the main group sort of depends on the 
  work item whether that makes sense uh.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It may be set 
  out as a work item because nobody else is interested and only 
  that sub Cruise group cares and so they don't need to report out 
  necessarily unless there is a real Milestone hit if it's just 
  ongoing discussions then there's nothing to report out and that's 
  fine.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Yeah 
  hopefully that helps clarify things a little bit.
Harrison_Tang: By the way dimitry uh I think you're in the queue 
  do you have a comment or question.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah I was wondering um.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Just just had a random idea as as we're 
  talking about this about how to improve connections between the 
  task force and uh the main ccg.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   And I was wondering.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Be worth uh working it in to part of our 
  boilerplate ritual right when we say are their introductions in 
  the introductions and Community announcements uh what if we had a 
  section uh any of the task forces or work item leaders want to 
  report something right so just just leave it at that right as a 
  reminder as a weekly reminder to connect.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah that's a good that's a good idea.
Harrison_Tang: You're in the queue.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Yeah I mean I we I remember these conversations 
  at Joe's on the call as well um we really leaned into um uh 
  embracing this uh Power of Silence awkward silence um you know 
  and calling on on people to make them accountable to uh to to the 
  work items so I think for a while it was part of the role that we 
  would say like um you know we would tell task forces you will uh 
  report out on this date and then so we would call on them but 
  then also we would cycle through work items and um even if people 
  so it was just part of our ritual and um often the answer would 
  be nothing's been done nothing's been done but it was still kind 
  of a good forcing function because eventually progress would be 
  made and I do think that we were trying to do something for a 
  while about you know after there's not progressed after.
Geun-Hyung Kim:   After a certain time.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Uh the chairs put a comment in the issue and say 
  this doesn't progress by X time we will assume it's on hold um 
  because I think for a while we were just dealing with so many 
  work items that we had to start being a little more forceful 
  about to make sure our attention could focus.
Harrison_Tang: Joe do you have a comment.
Joe Andrieu:  Uh yeah I just yeah in part to plus 1 the awkward 
  silence um is a good way to get people to speak but also queue 
  up.
Joe Andrieu:  So that people have an advanced notice that uh Hey 
  in 2 weeks we're going to want an update from you guys or hey we 
  need something in the in the next month we'd love to have you 
  when's convenient for you right so you could you could have a 
  queue where you're trying to work through the work items to to 
  give them an explicit uh Catalyst to come in and give a report um 
  and then I want to Echo what uh Kim was saying inflected as 
  triage like I think the group should do some triage about the 
  current work items and then have that be a regular practice like 
  are these things active enough to keep active I don't think we 
  asked that question as a group very often and I think we could we 
  could get into that process um both maybe in the the chair 
  meetings when you guys are planning what's our next topic we're 
  going to talk about um and and even bubble up into here uh into 
  this you know weekly call.
Joe Andrieu:  Let me add to that is to also ask how can we help.
Joe Andrieu:  So you know within the last year um the folks at 
  checked proposed a a work item uh related to link resources or 
  something named similar to that because I had similar work so we 
  had some engagement about it um and I'd love to see that like 
  moving forward I haven't heard of it moving forward but a 
  question you know we might bubble up to Anchor or other folks who 
  are involved in that is hey how can we help.
Harrison_Tang: So I do I do have a quick comment I think if 
  someone has a proposal and would like to kind of present it uh 
  during the meeting like uh we can also um you know hold a meeting 
  um on our calendar to kind of discuss the proposal in more 
  details uh the ccg does have like more than 500 uh members and we 
  do have an active uh you know email list and active discussions 
  um and then the you know addition to that we're trying to uh 
  leverage CCT as a as a kind of a Nexus uh to connect different uh 
  communities in the decentralized identity space so I think it 
  will be it's actually a good form to actually submit your ideas 
  and then solicit feedback from different uh people in the 
  community so in the different companies so so yeah so I think uh 
  you know that's just 1 know I want to add is that it doesn't have 
  to be just an idea.
Harrison_Tang: Um but we can actually have more in depth 
  discussion on our calendar as well.
<kim_duffy> 2016ish were the days!
<kim_duffy> Joe -- did you make that diagram? It looks like a Joe 
  thing
<harrison_tang> Joe likes Gannt charts?
<joe_andrieu> LOL. I think @manu gets credit for that one
<kim_duffy> He likes fanciful comprehensive diagrams
<joe_andrieu> I do like fanciful comprehensive diagrams
Joe Andrieu:  Uh yeah I just want to comment on that the um.
Joe Andrieu:  The roadmap um I I do think that was mayonnaise I 
  had put 1 together for I think uh TPAC in Leon and uh I went I 
  made a tragic failure which was I just thought through myself 
  what might be in our future like how do we get to like 
  information you can actually rely on because that's what VCS are 
  sort of about um and so I made a road map that really didn't have 
  any um grounding um so I don't know how useful it was 1 of the 
  challenges that we have as a community is there is no single 
  entity who has uh funding and emission to say hey here's how 
  we're going to schedule how we realize our mission right so it's 
  it's hurting cats and so the road map is more a discovery of 
  where are we in the different things we might do together as 
  opposed to a top-down statement of this is what we're going to do 
  in q1 and if we get that done in q1 then Q2 will move to this 
  right so it's a different notion of road map I just want to 
  invite the group to consider.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah I just want to uh make a note not necessary 
  on the work items but uh I would just uh encourage people to uh 
  kind of share their ideas and also maybe news that uh they've 
  seen that's identity related on our mailing list uh I think 
  Stephen Curry mostly uh most recently kind of shared uh MIT 
  research paper um meaty right and then I think Manu does that uh 
  several people do that too but I would just encourage more people 
  to do that um.
Harrison_Tang: Like uh we.
Harrison_Tang: I have a feeling like some people might feel a 
  little bit right um because I I too uh was in that uh situation 
  uh years ago uh to kind of uh share their thoughts right in the 
  public forum uh especially something as technical as ccg but I 
  would just uh encourage people to leverage that mailing list uh 
  we used to have a little bit more spicy comments uh in the years 
  past uh not recently I don't know exactly what happened maybe 
  our.
Harrison_Tang: Every meeting past scare people off but uh but I I 
  actually enjoy those kind of spicy comments and if you really get 
  out of hand the the the cultures will actually kind of pull 
  people off the side uh you only happen once in the past 2 years 
  or so uh but I I would just say hey you know encourage people to 
  kind of make comments uh straight up what they heard um and you 
  know that's have a little bit more um conversations and I I I 
  personally really appreciate those conversations.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Yeah in terms of the kind of work items you know 
  I was thinking about like the 2016 ish was definitely the um you 
  know felt like a Heyday of having you know this.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  There wasn't as much fragmentation as there is 
  now so like I at the recent IBEW um what really stood out is that 
  everyone is speaking different languages about you know the 
  technical Stacks are so different these there's you know every 
  day I wake up there's a new VC format and it's fine you know 
  everyone's going to support all of them but it's really 
  increasingly hard to even talk about how to you know what's in 
  common for them um so that that really stands out as a sort of 
  like broad concern I think you know this group has done a great 
  job of getting all the groups into report out and um you know so 
  that at least people are aware of what's happening and perhaps a 
  an area a good thing to focus on that could cut through it would 
  be something you know much more use case right.
<kaliya_identity_woman> Just so you know I was using the APP  on 
  my phone this morning to dial in and there was no audio.  (Just 
  got home so now I'm here).
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Best practices or something like that oriented 
  ideally you know to the point of having someone drive it like it 
  does make the most sense if someone's got some skin in the game 
  for it so ideally if it's aligned with their business goals um.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  But but yeah it it just stands out that a lot of 
  the things we were doing then is harder now because the um you 
  know because a lot of the core data models are are sort of going 
  in a lot of different directions but um you know also the point 
  to unifying like to the point that uh people will ultimately want 
  to be interoperable how do you how do you reconcile that so 
  that's a a challenge and possibly opportunity as well.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Yeah and we've done that in the past like we 
  have liaison relationships and so for a while um back in when it 
  was called encrypted data vaults like that was a co-run um you 
  know uh sort of work items so there is a precedent for that kind 
  of thing.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Yeah I mean I think I want to go back to 
  Harrison's point about like you know I don't I don't know um how 
  to get past the challenge of you know getting people to have sort 
  of I don't know if it's lack of confidence to sort of speak up 
  share their perspective but you could also think about it is like 
  you know so people are taking the time to join the call like it 
  would be really interesting to hear from people just you know.
Geun-Hyung Kim:  Get over the awkwardness of it and you know why 
  are you here what could you get out of it um I think that it 
  would be really good to hear just people's thoughts on that um 
  you know I mean I guess there's a aspect of staying on top of the 
  news in decentralized identity but um I it is a good ongoing um 
  focus for people like um what could you get out of this if you 
  know what could what could these sort of groups be doing such 
  that um you your job would be easier or you could you're you know 
  you could be more impactful those kinds of things so um I do want 
  to go back to sort of Harrison's point that comes out of the 
  meronem discussion which is great.
<laura_paglione> As a newcomer to the community, I very much 
  value that this forum provides an exposure to the broad and 
  varied topics
Harrison_Tang: By the way well there's a comment from Laura uh 
  she says that as a newcomer to the community I very much value 
  that this form provides an exposure to the broad and very topic 
  and I and I agree with that so Laura do you have anything else to 
  add or.
Laura_Paglione: Uh not really but except to say that um you know 
  I don't I have no idea what I don't know about and it's been 
  helpful I mean I've only been going coming to these meetings for 
  the last couple of months and.
Laura_Paglione: Having this many different topics coming at me um 
  helps me to put a framework around the overall field uh and maybe 
  once I have more of a framework I'd be able to like have 
  conversations or um you know provide comments or get involved but 
  right now there's it's just so broad it's hard to get my arms 
  around everything.
Harrison_Tang: And and I want to ask something that uh you know I 
  think I shared with the community before like I joined this group 
  uh thanks to Kalia and then I just want to kind of learn about 
  the Southside identity and decentralized identity space and ccg 
  has helped me do that uh quite a bit and as a culture I have the 
  luxury to just uh invite uh people that I think uh I can learn 
  from so really uh thankful for what ccg uh has brought to me and 
  uh in regards to work items 1 of the things that I.
Harrison_Tang:  always want.
Harrison_Tang: Work on but haven't had the time to uh uh Works 
  related to trust Frameworks I think we have a lot of uh.
Harrison_Tang: Topics uh and work items in regards to uh 
  basically the technology side of things like whether its data 
  schema uh the cryptography you know uh.
<laura_paglione> I would love to work on Trust frameworks with 
  you.
<gerald_glickman> Also very interested in learning about and 
  contributing to trust frameworks in any way that I can
Harrison_Tang: Exchange uh kind of protocols and those kind of 
  things but at the end of the day um you know trust is not just 
  about technology it's about processes and people as well right so 
  so I think any entity can create a decentralized identifiers and 
  uh um you know and how do you actually uh make sure that uh how 
  do you know that you can trust this particular entity and uh 1 
  can say that uh trust inherently is decentralized uh and it 
  depends on what fires want to do but I think for all intents and 
  purposes for regular folks the Layman's out there they just want 
  to know if there's a framework that they can trust right so 1 of 
  the things that I think will be great for Ci or any of the 
  companies out there is to kind of create this.
Harrison_Tang:  uh um.
Harrison_Tang: Centralized framework right but something uh 
  decentralized in a way that it's a open Community right so it's 
  not owned by the single entity or a company um but you know a 
  trust framework uh to talk about hey you know what issuers and 
  verifiers that people can trust so anyway so if people are 
  interested in this just uh pay me and then the hopefully uh if 
  there's enough interest that kind of motivates motivates and 
  pushes me uh to to work on this kind of things that I always want 
  to work on but haven't had time to.
Harrison_Tang: Uh sorry dimitry you're on the queue.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah so I wanted to uh I know we're almost at 
  time but I wanted to uh say big plus 1 to what you said about 
  trust Registries and in general 1 of the 1 of the reasons I find 
  this group incredibly valuable is its forward-looking it's if you 
  can think of uh if I can make an analogy of the standards groups 
  rail uh laying down railroad tracks.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh the sort of 1 of the purposes of the ccg is 
  to scout ahead make sure there's no uh there's no obstacles uh 
  like level the ground and all that stuff so 1 so trust registry 
  is is an excellent example uh 1 of the things that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh for example I'm uh 1 of the co-chairs of 
  the VC edu task force and 1 of the things we ran into in 
  implementation is exactly that I need for.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   For trust.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And so 1 of 1 of the things the task force uh 
  would be kicking off um with the digital credentials Consortium 
  and credential engine is this overview of existing trust registry 
  Frameworks comparison and uh further discussion but uh similarly 
  we ran into the problem of uh the render method uh render the 
  problem of verifiable governance and all uh the Eternal search 
  for uh really good did methods and and next week's uh trusted did 
  web is an excellent example of that um big thing about this so 
  all all of that to say is uh this group is doing important work 
  clearing the way for credentials work and I absolutely agree with 
  you that specifically no issue or lists and Trust Registries is I 
  think the number 1 technical CH Technical and organizational 
  challenge facing the credentials community so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Definitely uh we should take a more um active 
  role in.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you Dimitri and by the way I just want to 
  uh.
Harrison_Tang: Say big thank you Dimitri over the years for that 
  kind of teaching me a lot of things so just want to publicly 
  acknowledge uh your help so thanks a lot.
<jeff_o_-_humanos> Thx All!
<harrison_tang> Thanks!!
