[2023-04-25T15:58:07.262Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2023-04-25T15:58:19.258Z]	<Jennie_Meier>	present+
[2023-04-25T15:58:22.976Z]	<Sandy_Aggarwal>	present+
[2023-04-25T15:58:33.226Z]	<Jeff_O_-_HumanOS>	present+
[2023-04-25T15:58:53.183Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2023-04-25T15:59:25.963Z]	<Paul_Murdock>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:00:08.711Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:00:26.295Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:00:32.253Z]	<Vanessa_Xu>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:00:40.319Z]	<Kimberly_Linson>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:00:40.531Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:01:01.262Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:01:21.123Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:01:31.791Z]	<Keith_Kowal>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:01:39.743Z]	<Clare_Nelson>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:01:54.986Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:02:03.414Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:02:03.991Z]	<Gail_Hodges>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:02:12.964Z]	<Torsten_Lodderstedt>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:02:13.126Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:02:25.598Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:02:28.114Z]	<Clare_Nelson_(DIF)>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:02:36.439Z]	<Leo>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:02:44.588Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:02:56.797Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	hey Gail, thanks for taking the time to join our meeting
[2023-04-25T16:02:57.977Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-04-25T16:02:57.977Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2023-04-25T16:03:15.958Z]	<Mark_Haine>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:03:21.724Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:03:23.765Z]	<Sandy_Aggarwal>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:03:26.449Z]	<mprorock>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2023Apr/0043.html
[2023-04-25T16:03:37.650Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Hello all and welcome to the April 25th 2023 Community credentials group meeting so today we are pleased to have Gail Hodges and some others join us from the open ID foundation and get a nice overview of the foundation there as well as kind of crossover since there's a lot of fun stuff going back and forth with work either incubated in this group or that has moved on from this group from incubation and.
[2023-04-25T16:03:38.144Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock:  we personally use it along on our side.
[2023-04-25T16:04:02.060Z]	<mprorock>	https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/
[2023-04-25T16:04:13.036Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: As well as some others so I thought it would be a very good time to get that overview and especially as the BC to 100 working group kind of marches forward and we're starting to look at more exchange verifiable credentials and different mechanisms and what not just a quick reminder that this meeting along with all meetings at the w3c are covered under the code of ethics and professional conduct which I have the link in the chat basically be kind to one another.
[2023-04-25T16:04:13.608Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock:  another and make sure everyone has time and all that kind of fun stuff.
[2023-04-25T16:04:22.005Z]	<mprorock>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2023-04-25T16:04:46.676Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Is totally open to the public and anyone can participate in these calls but if you are contributing to a work item in the ccg you must be a member of the ccg and that is primarily for intellectual property rights reason so if you need to join with the link in the chat there these meetings as per always are posted up on our GitHub and are readily available we do use the chat.
[2023-04-25T16:04:47.105Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock:  as well as the raised hand okay.
[2023-04-25T16:04:53.107Z]	<mprorock>	“q+” to add yourself to the queue, with an optional
reminder, e.g., “q+ to mention something”. The “to” is required.
[2023-04-25T16:05:00.879Z]	<Phil_T3>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:05:16.246Z]	<Kaliya_IdentityWoman>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:05:19.857Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Molitor back you and I as the moderator will be monitoring that Q so I'm putting a quick text note from the meeting invite but basically you can type Q Plus Q the letter Q followed by the plus symbol into the chat and that will lock put you on the Queue and there's some other notes there quick pause for two items first as intros and Ranchos the second is announcements and reminders but.
[2023-04-25T16:05:20.192Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock:  first off is there anyone new to this group.
[2023-04-25T16:05:29.887Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Has not been here before that like to introduce themselves or who has changed roles and would like to introduce themselves as a part of their illegal.
[2023-04-25T16:05:31.470Z]	<Lucy_Yang>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:05:51.380Z]	<Phil_T3>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:05:53.822Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Seeing and hearing none I will move onto any announcements and reminders any relevant announcements for the community and kalea take it away.
[2023-04-25T16:05:57.183Z]	<mprorock>	ack Kaliya
[2023-04-25T16:06:13.723Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:06:17.212Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:06:18.573Z]	<Mark_Haine>	+1 to Kaliya - IIW was great
[2023-04-25T16:06:23.843Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_IdentityWoman: Hi I'll just say we had a fabulous internet identity workshop last week and we're working really hard on getting notes in but the announcement the announcement I have is the digital identity unconference Europe is coming up in Zurich a prime not April to June 7 to 9 I'll put a link in and we're having two full days of open space technology.
[2023-04-25T16:06:24.119Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_IdentityWoman:  the method that we use it.
[2023-04-25T16:06:49.417Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_IdentityWoman: You and it should be really good opportunity for folks in Europe to get together and talk about all things digital identity and hopefully be a forum for all the eei to us and you digital wallet folks to talk amongst themselves.
[2023-04-25T16:06:50.072Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:07:01.888Z]	<Kaliya_IdentityWoman>	http://www.diceurope.org
[2023-04-25T16:07:05.652Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Excellent thanks so much and yeah that's really good timing with all the active work going on all day Otis and you know related standards around you know credentialing and exchange of credentialing ranging from the personal sign on out so thanks so much for arranging that.
[2023-04-25T16:07:06.087Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock:  any other announcements.
[2023-04-25T16:07:07.559Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:07:30.075Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:07:31.740Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: All right cool well with that Gail I'm going to hand it over to you as OnPoint to intro the community or re intro the community to the open ID foundation and get us a nice little fun little overview here and we'll go from there so.
[2023-04-25T16:07:35.005Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Sounds good sounds great and time check how much time did you want to.
[2023-04-25T16:07:45.815Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Yeah you've got some flexibility there I would say let's shoot for 30 minutes and then kind of pause for Q&A at that point and then we can go from there so.
[2023-04-25T16:08:07.386Z]	<kristina>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:08:12.991Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Sounds great and I have a couple of members of the foundation to I don't think our regular w3c participants on with me so Mark Haines Torsen modest at I think Christina you sudha is often in these conversations that I don't see comment so I think some of you levels of familiarity with our work what I wanted to do was kick us off the just like two pages of overview on the foundation little bit on what.
[2023-04-25T16:08:13.675Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  in the area of identity or digital identity.
[2023-04-25T16:08:36.435Z]	<Will>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:08:36.503Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:08:48.995Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: I have a little bit of a lens on the US market although you know they're extrapolations for the rest of the world and then hopefully between Torsten Christina and Mark will talk about a couple of the pages on oid C4 verifiable credentials which I think has particular relevance torso and Christina this is building on your Workshop presentation from last week that we share publicly last Monday and I popped in a diagram that you usually use and so we've got 45 pages there.
[2023-04-25T16:08:49.756Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  but I think that's probably one of the Richer parts of the conversation when I do the intro upfront I will.
[2023-04-25T16:09:20.996Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Our standards and white paper work that's happening within the foundation definitely want to draw that to your attention before we close one of the papers that comment period just concluded but another paper is about to open up for public comment on May 2nd and other paper shortly after that so we definitely want to encourage this stakeholder group to provide your expertise as part of those those Journeys so with that I also had background papers so if we want to jump deeper.
[2023-04-25T16:09:21.451Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  to gain or some of these other.
[2023-04-25T16:09:28.116Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Got the material for that as well Maria I'm going to try and push through the document.
[2023-04-25T16:09:36.487Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Let's see if I've Got The Power sharing my screen wow.
[2023-04-25T16:09:50.945Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: You are up so so yep looking good so far at least oh my God.
[2023-04-25T16:10:06.615Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:10:13.577Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Okay I'm going to keep the tracker on the side let me know if this is coming across is too small for all of you the big picture thanks Mike so what is the open ID Foundation we are nonprofit identity Open Standards body we revised our vision and our mission last year our vision is to help people start their identity wherever they choose and our mission is to lead the global community and creating identities centers at secure interoperable and privacy-preserving.
[2023-04-25T16:10:14.357Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  so I think we're although these are ambitious vision and missions they are also.
[2023-04-25T16:10:44.797Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: To be us playing our natural role amongst a very Complex Community of nonprofit and third party actors so we just want to make sure we're playing our role and we're helping to engage with other thought leaders like like your community our board is comprised of some obviously bring name recognition Britain well-known organizations you might not be familiar with Chicago advisory Partners but they're basically representing the Central Bank of Brazil.
[2023-04-25T16:10:45.336Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  because of our work in open Banking and open data.
[2023-04-25T16:11:21.387Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: First we have across our full membership of hundreds of entities that includes government stakeholders nonprofit partners and individuals as well so we are it's only to cost $50 to be a member of the foundation and how full voting rights and you can contribute to the foundation standards at no cost just by signing a participation agreement so that's important to the DNA of our organization not only for our standards to the openly available but also for their to be the lowest possible conceivable barrier to participation.
[2023-04-25T16:11:22.000Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  ation and still ensure that there's a safe space for any contributions the legal protection and.
[2023-04-25T16:11:53.166Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: We do have billions of users using our respective standards most of you would be most familiar with with open ID connect and you know the use cases for login or Enterprise access there were also one of the leading standards for open Banking and open data which drives a lot of our government relationships and talk very briefly about that open Health as well many of our students have been selected by the Health Community in the UK Norway and here in the US for digital identity where I'll spend.
[2023-04-25T16:11:53.594Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  little bit more time.
[2023-04-25T16:12:16.652Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:12:28.962Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: People spend more time on that and shared signals so if you're creating any sort of network how do you you know share signals between the entities within that community in terms of government Partnerships we work very closely with numerous different countries around the world here are a handful of them you can see in the u.s. context bunch of acronyms but nist for standard CHS Department Homeland Security Consumer Finance protection board is the open Banking and open data space fincen and Treasury.
[2023-04-25T16:12:29.611Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  the White House and others the open key European Commission.
[2023-04-25T16:12:29.778Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: You kill you.
[2023-04-25T16:12:58.302Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:13:07.502Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: The EU digital identity wallet where they selected some of our open ID for verifiable credential standards in their recent architectural reference framework will talk to that later today I could have mentioned the California DMV they've also selected some of our standards and for use in a similar architecture to the EU the UK the open banking implementation entity that's open banking up and data and the other three are also open Banking and open data Focus so Australia consumer data rights and a triple C's their consumer protection group Brazil.
[2023-04-25T16:13:08.895Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  the central bank and open banking Brazil and the same Canada so we've got a lot of a lot of direct engagement and for many of those open Banking and open.
[2023-04-25T16:13:41.440Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:13:42.890Z]	<David_I._Lehn>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:13:42.911Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Like the standards but they're also choosing to use our certification capabilities which are basically self-certification at a super low price point so trying to make it as accessible as possible for participants in the ecosystem to confirm that their implementations are aligned in conformance to the standards and it usually runs between about a thousand to five thousand dollars per implementation which is I think substantially lower than one would see for commercial certification programs.
[2023-04-25T16:13:43.550Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  in terms of the this is what the the Strategic task force has been.
[2023-04-25T16:13:54.148Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:14:20.821Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Chanting our Focus for this year there's a few administrative items in here but I'll start on the actually the right side of the Stitch the page so those standards and those initiatives which already have internet scale so open ID connect our open banking open data work which is the factory standard or security profile I should say and our certification program so those are quite mature quite robust and are really in continuing to grow then in terms of crossing the chasm you know those standards that are emerging but really moving rapidly up the adoption curve we have open eyes.
[2023-04-25T16:14:21.725Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  reconnect for verifiable credentials open ID connect for identity assurance and shared signals framework we're kind of.
[2023-04-25T16:14:21.790Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: In the foundations.
[2023-04-25T16:14:53.141Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: And this is where we kind of mix things up a little bit next generation is making sure we're really bringing in thought leadership from the Next Generation whether in Academia or young professionals kind of coming into this domain space the gain work of the global assured identity Network were the home of the proof of concept so although that community group is self-organizing we offer our IP are in our legal entity to help that group deliver on its objectives of interoperability of identity data across.
[2023-04-25T16:14:53.831Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  some jurisdictions and in.
[2023-04-25T16:15:24.865Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: And we're also an active participant what on what's nicknamed the G6 for the gain initiative stakeholders which is six nonprofits who are helping to steer The Wider gain project and I got of is a profile of open ID connect particularly relevant for government implementations moderna is a version of the open ID profile specific for mobile mobile networks and then during the plan so we have as the open ID Foundation.
[2023-04-25T16:15:25.262Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  the open wallet.
[2023-04-25T16:15:36.700Z]	<Sandy_Aggarwal>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:15:45.443Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:15:59.840Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Founding nonprofits we have a couple of key white papers one on government and identity what an another on government-issued identity credentials and the Privacy implications those are both racing towards their final versions now the Privacy white paper just closed its comment period yesterday on the 24th and the government white paper that Mark Haines on this call and Elizabeth Garber or co-leading that paper will will open for public comment on the night on the made second.
[2023-04-25T16:16:00.259Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  and through May 12 so that will come shortly and in both of those.
[2023-04-25T16:16:34.326Z]	<Andres_Uribe>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:16:38.571Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Have been more than six nonprofits Who provided their expertise as well as interviews over six months as well as public listening sessions that iiw authenticate open ID Foundation workshops and various other forms to really try and have a global perspective on the movement that's underway right now we also have a paper on iot and identity which is currently going to be a report to the board and potentially made public shortly at a Denver's and that's looking at clearly the interfaces between those domains between the things as well as.
[2023-04-25T16:16:39.688Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  the carbon people we have a new technical Ambassador we brought on board that is a mark Haines so that's a great for the foundation to have his.
[2023-04-25T16:17:17.428Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: The core team will be varying on a market direct marketing director if some of you have ideas please let me know and we're improving you know we're looking to make sure that our well form specification process is clearly articulated and we're updating our website at the same time so we're kind of making sure that are prophecies for specification is made public we also have some work on health that we've done last year and then there's some emerging areas around AI web 30 there's a lot of discussion as well I'm going to make sure we're keeping keeping on the pulse.
[2023-04-25T16:17:18.491Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  of of that domain space as well we also recognize the importance of diversity so what are you know efforts we can do to support.
[2023-04-25T16:17:38.906Z]	<Andres_Uribe>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:17:41.457Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:17:47.564Z]	<BrentZ>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:17:54.179Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Community as a whole and supporting end developers write the ones who are really putting this to work so this is how we kind of think about you know different have a bunch of different initiatives to try and deliver both the specifications as well as make sure that that work is accessible and supporting the community as a whole I'm going to jump onto the next page I've lost my cursor there it is which is just a little bit of gales take really on the u.s. model and one way of looking at it as different flavors.
[2023-04-25T16:17:54.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  and this is a page I've shared with you know some US government officials in the past which they found a little bit you.
[2023-04-25T16:18:29.090Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: To orient themselves on some of the different options that are out there and how we fit in and how some of the other US Government efforts fit in so the three kind of different categories I think about things is you might have a government issue credential that is government issue right it's may be derived from the created based on digital version of the physical driving license or ID there are a couple of leading standards at least in the u.s. context in person you know moving to online that the started as the impersonal.
[2023-04-25T16:18:29.700Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  varmint it's moving online you have that kind of government root of trust or confidence the.
[2023-04-25T16:18:29.761Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: It supports that.
[2023-04-25T16:19:04.765Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Provisioning and you have the option to link to other types of government claims and credential types pretty cool and then you have two flavors of privately issued credentials so you might have privately issue credentials that are derived using a government Source like a DL DB from Amba or another direct access to a state or a federal system of record and then you might have privately issued credentials and Services I say some of this with trepidation because I know some of you would probably react it strongly the different words on the page but.
[2023-04-25T16:19:05.464Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  trying to trying to simplify it then for DHS and TSA there's been some guidance.
[2023-04-25T16:19:09.863Z]	<Paul_Murdock>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:19:39.930Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Is a checkpoint so the first two categories a government-issued or privately issued with a government Source could be adapted to be conformant so a user can present that credential at a TSA checkpoint to travel then for Miss the 863 Ash for digital identity guidance is looking I think to cover all three of those spectrums to help ensure that government entities would be able to consume digital identity information and apply appropriate levels of a assurance and interpret.
[2023-04-25T16:19:40.465Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  at their risk profile their risk profile appropriately and then.
[2023-04-25T16:20:18.141Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Perspective we have a little bit of a foot in the game and all of those domains right so we see some of it depending on our standards depending on the application some of our specs can can help support those implementations help underpin them so we sit across quite a few different spaces at this point Christina and Torsten thought I'd point to you as you can see I've got a couple of pages on what we shared last week as well as the diagram are you comfortable picking up and taking a few of these pages to share.
[2023-04-25T16:20:19.845Z]	<Transcriber>	kristina: I'm not go ahead.
[2023-04-25T16:21:17.456Z]	<Sandy_Aggarwal>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:21:39.808Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Yep this is the formatting is still not quite right is it Torsten think it's might be hiding a little coffee.
[2023-04-25T16:21:46.477Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:22:02.454Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:22:42.461Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:22:46.002Z]	<Chandi>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:23:47.093Z]	<kristina>	so presenting any credential format over BLE
[2023-04-25T16:23:55.770Z]	<kristina>	(not just mdocs :P)
[2023-04-25T16:24:07.582Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:25:01.886Z]	<kristina>	https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-vc-security-and-trust-1_0.html
[2023-04-25T16:25:11.780Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:25:20.450Z]	<kristina>	this document is essentialy a trust/security analysis for the entire issuer-holder-verifier model
[2023-04-25T16:25:22.682Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Not yet at this time and I'll jump in if we something pops up I'm watching the key from so.
[2023-04-25T16:25:27.681Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:25:27.993Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Want to talk about before.
[2023-04-25T16:25:30.439Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Would you like to go next.
[2023-04-25T16:25:48.244Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Houston apologies thank you.
[2023-04-25T16:27:43.579Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:28:57.698Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: That's what I was going to do.
[2023-04-25T16:29:18.759Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:29:27.672Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:29:55.121Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Great happy to see if anyone in the ccg has has additional questions feel free to pop them in the chat and Mike you can help us pull them out since I can't see the chat while presenting hopefully everyone will take the moment to snap the picture and if you remember to please vote so we can keep that work moving along particularly in support of the EU California and New South Wales all of which you have selected this standard as Government partners and of course many private players have also been working.
[2023-04-25T16:29:55.550Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  and selected the standard so exciting times thank you for sitting.
[2023-04-25T16:30:16.117Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Let's move on maybe Mark you can just share a few headlines I think you briefed this group recently on EK R IC and idea working group which is the open ID connect for identity Assurance standard you also have a spec open for voting so we can oops sorry jumping around a little bit.
[2023-04-25T16:30:16.531Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  there you go maybe you can give up.
[2023-04-25T16:30:20.840Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: You the headlines mark this is also the content you shared with the workshop last.
[2023-04-25T16:30:35.292Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:31:07.713Z]	<kristina>	openid.net/oid4vc is a go-to place for anything OID4VC
[2023-04-25T16:31:39.040Z]	<kristina>	there are quite some OSS libraries emerging
[2023-04-25T16:32:09.914Z]	<kristina>	and information on adoption like 18 compliant wallets in EBSI :_
[2023-04-25T16:32:12.692Z]	<kristina>	:)
[2023-04-25T16:32:27.190Z]	<kristina>	and here is BLE draft (if anyone has expertise) https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-presentations-over-ble-1_0.html
[2023-04-25T16:32:42.038Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:33:01.843Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: We have the working group progress challenges and then really the roadmap but I think you also are trying to lean into protocol agnostic approach here right so despite the maybe you can talk about that.
[2023-04-25T16:33:24.306Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	the http://openid.net/oid4vc link goes to "404 Not Found"
[2023-04-25T16:34:32.585Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:34:36.672Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:34:54.394Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: We could do a Segway knocks I know time is tight and Mark all I'll tap you too kind of Riff a little bit on the open ID government sorry the young the white paper which although this is branded open ID has actually had more than five different nonprofit entities and a swath of experts from around the world contributing to it I'll do the intro Mark and then I'll ask you to talk about the country mapping and the in the key principles and recommendations.
[2023-04-25T16:34:54.896Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  since Elizabeth's not here I'll pretend I'm her.
[2023-04-25T16:35:08.004Z]	<mprorock>	this should work: https://openid.net/openid4vc/
[2023-04-25T16:35:25.963Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: One of the objectives of the white paper you know was to make sure that it was grounded in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and and that that was a starting point regardless of the jurisdiction around the world that you were thinking about digital identity that was a crucial you know starting point and then the co-authors have been doing rigorous review of all of the literature that's available most recently the oecd published draft recommendations on the governments of governance of digital identity infrastructure and so to really try and build.
[2023-04-25T16:35:26.399Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  build upon.
[2023-04-25T16:35:47.471Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Do you know due diligence that's been established and to try and consolidate that into view of the landscape and what are sensible recommendations for government officials that are looking to kind of go through this journey Mark maybe you can talk a little bit about the plotting here and then I'll go to page 41 which is the recommendations.
[2023-04-25T16:38:18.175Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Sharing quite a bunch of them and that's where the rest of the pages went right Mark.
[2023-04-25T16:38:18.417Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  it was kind of like trying to.
[2023-04-25T16:38:49.671Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: IW some feedback from the community you know it was great to have 20 30 people in the room you know to provide their perspective and help enrich you know how far down should we go in terms of guidance knowing that its Global guidance and you can't take the value system of just one jurisdiction and apply it to others you know it needs to really work and build upon you know how you deliver on the oecd principles right Mark and so if you'd be great to get this community's feedback coming in you know when it goes goes public.
[2023-04-25T16:38:58.683Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:39:11.662Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: I think so yeah I'm not seeing anyone on the cube but right now is a great time or there any kind of questions from the community I know there's been a lot of back and forth we'll do a DC and I know a lot of times.
[2023-04-25T16:39:11.850Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock:  there's almost.
[2023-04-25T16:39:12.534Z]	<Sandy_Aggarwal>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:39:34.336Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: And I think Mike Pro rock that probably brings us to a pause you know to see if there's any other questions we area this.
[2023-04-25T16:39:44.600Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: This dichotomy that will get built up that will say oh yeah well we just deal with human side or looking at one particular method or were working just as through the system and there are api-related but not clearly low a TCP flows across a lot of these different items so any any questions in from the community here and if not I definitely have a question maybe I'll start there which it is I obviously.
[2023-04-25T16:39:45.094Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock:  not saying anyone hopping on the queue.
[2023-04-25T16:40:15.458Z]	<kristina>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:40:19.811Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: For my own edification obviously open data comes up a lot in the context of open ID as probation but it seems to be still mostly focused around banking all right and that kind of information there any you know given the amount of emphasis going on on open data in other areas and things like that I mean is there a plan to expand out but you know put broader engagement in place or are there things going on that just.
[2023-04-25T16:40:20.502Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock:  not really visible or accessible from the website that folks should be thinking of.
[2023-04-25T16:40:36.267Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: I'm thinking especially because of things that the traceability vocab and then other efforts like we take day job wise around things like agricultural data and Health Data and things like that.
[2023-04-25T16:40:46.186Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Yeah I'm happy to Riff on that a little bit Mike so you're quite right that a lot of the orientation around open and open data has really started in.
[2023-04-25T16:40:46.505Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  banking but it.
[2023-04-25T16:41:23.608Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: It really is moving across vertical at least that's you know what we see clearly for Open Health that's one of the the key drivers of the that tends to be different different stakeholders who are driving the thinking and Open Health we do see whether it's Australia or Brazil like Brazil has gone from open banking into open insurance so that's a half step we're seeing in Australia the movement going into utilities and Telecom and and so forth so it's really consumer data rights is the way that a market like Australia is approaching it so it kind of is.
[2023-04-25T16:41:24.598Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  depends on where it's originating if you're here in the US clearly it's really a focus on banking at the moment with.
[2023-04-25T16:41:58.931Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Cfpb that's underway this calendar year with clear commitments to make that happen the same thing in Canada right so focus on open banking but I think that we're likely to see you know more and more movement into the consider data right perspective and from our perspective it's it's protocol agnostic right so the factory security profile would work across different verticals it really doesn't matter what you're putting through that secure plate it could be different types of.
[2023-04-25T16:41:59.637Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  data data structures different verticals so if you like I could.
[2023-04-25T16:41:59.783Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Couple of couple of.
[2023-04-25T16:42:16.665Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:42:24.766Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Does update on where that work is globally because you got a little bit in here in terms of the different countries but I think I'll actually pause presenting and bring up a different page to talk about the multiple different countries that are like what we're actually doing with that let me pause this presentation and see if there's any questions along the way.
[2023-04-25T16:42:55.556Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Yeah I guess we related to that you know thinking about the Open Health stuff like that I mean one of the areas we deal with is monitoring disease reporting globally right in that and that's from a one Health expect it's not just human but also animal livestock Etc and that's an area where despite a lot of efforts especially only Agriculture and invasive species stuff there is still no defined you know like scheming format so caps Etc that are actually.
[2023-04-25T16:42:55.848Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock:  Liam use all that and so on.
[2023-04-25T16:43:10.906Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Area you see your members actually participating actively almond actually getting buy-in on or is that just an area that as it moves off for this reasons a certain care improved over time things like that.
[2023-04-25T16:43:28.957Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: So I haven't heard about the agricultural use case in movement yet I'd be intrigued Mike to chat with you offline see what you're hearing so you've been close to that supply chain you know conversation with you know John on and DHS but if it's kind of starting to kind of cascade into agriculture I think that's it.
[2023-04-25T16:43:48.398Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Aware that's perking up because it can be a crossover between the government issued credentials as well as the open open data domain as well as potentially also iot as you're thinking about how is our gating some of the movement of goods I think there's a interesting Confluence there.
[2023-04-25T16:43:51.468Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:44:32.765Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Okay yeah it's helpful that I might do a little digging around on that so you know thank you Margaret okay perfect awesome.
[2023-04-25T16:44:50.655Z]	<Sandy_Aggarwal>	Q+ How does Microsoft Entra link up with the OIDF? I'm specifically interested in their XBox  and Mesh ecosystems.
[2023-04-25T16:44:50.656Z]	<Sandy_Aggarwal>	Q+
[2023-04-25T16:45:03.894Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: So I'll try and do this in the two-minute version so we can obviously share this deck out or ask any of you know respond to any specific questions but fappy you know is looking on developing the security profile to move the you know the data on the consent-based way between the users and the other ecosystem participants sometimes it's called Data free floods with trust sometimes it's called a bin Banking and open data it's got a lot of names but it's really the same underlying objective.
[2023-04-25T16:45:04.407Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  of and the The Faculty framework security.
[2023-04-25T16:45:06.856Z]	<Sandy_Aggarwal>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:45:06.964Z]	<mprorock>	/me sees Sandy
[2023-04-25T16:45:08.633Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:45:41.303Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: The cover like all the key aspects and as we mentioned for the iadc for VC work it's so important to have the security analysis across the you know the protocol end to end and that's important work which both fact you want and now fact he to have been through the security analysis also with the University of Stuttgart so very exciting work and Fabby to is moving to final in the days and months ahead in terms of countries it's very you know wide partnership and engagement which is what I had.
[2023-04-25T16:45:42.547Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  alluded to at the beginning so whether that's the UK with the OB I obiee and that's mostly open banking but I think they're looking to extend.
[2023-04-25T16:45:54.696Z]	<Sandy_Aggarwal>	How does Microsoft Entra link up with the OIDF? I'm specifically interested in their XBox  and Mesh ecosystems.
[2023-04-25T16:46:14.211Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: And Finance in Brazil for open Insurance they've selected the standard they've also mandated the conformance on both sides of the transaction for the 00 PCR open ID providers as well as the relying parties which is really exciting they often you know Brazil also decide to become a board member which is which is great to make sure that they're taking part of the global conversation we also know that this work is cascading around Latin America with Chile Colombia and Mexico expected to be next and other countries are very much you know passing legislation and moving at the same.
[2023-04-25T16:46:49.857Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Both moving on open Banking and open data the consumer data rights work they've also selected the the standards of the foundation and are also contemplating using the certification capabilities to build on what they already have Saudi Arabia has selected the standards and I was also collaborating with us and certification can and Canada is going through their kind of rulemaking and their refinement process as we speak and there I think she feels likely that they'll continue to.
[2023-04-25T16:46:50.663Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  I want to work with the fat be security profile and figure out you know what that means for the.
[2023-04-25T16:47:22.308Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Leanne implementations same thing here in the US we've been formally briefing the cfpb and commenting on their their rulemaking and I think they're trying to work out what good looks like here and then Norway has selected this standard for health so it's kind of sitting across the piece and about those from UK to Saudi Arabia they've all chosen to use the foundation certification support the others either don't think they pretty much don't have certification of the moments about.
[2023-04-25T16:47:24.766Z]	<mprorock>	q- Sandy
[2023-04-25T16:47:25.710Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Right yeah now makes total sense and I run it running a bit of change track I see a question in from Sandy here so Sandy far away.
[2023-04-25T16:47:35.114Z]	<mprorock>	q- Sandy
[2023-04-25T16:47:55.759Z]	<Transcriber>	Sandy_Aggarwal: Am I I know if my mind okay basically my understand that Microsoft has been working in close collaboration here on sure maybe Christina could answer session but his working in operation with the or IDF principles that certifications.
[2023-04-25T16:48:06.321Z]	<Transcriber>	Sandy_Aggarwal: Well I'm sorry good Mike.
[2023-04-25T16:48:28.244Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Yeah you just said because I know you were having some Mike break up there at least on my side but looking back to the question I think also the overlap between Entre and oid see and like how closely are these things related from both an implementation I'm not sure necessarily on the certification so I'd say India that been in there as well.
[2023-04-25T16:48:29.508Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: So is the question whether Microsoft implementations are certified well.
[2023-04-25T16:48:40.356Z]	<Transcriber>	kristina: I mean bought online Microsoft is only one company implementing a standard standardized in open idea Foundation nothing last nothing more.
[2023-04-25T16:48:55.787Z]	<Transcriber>	kristina: When they certification comes out Microsoft to be tried to be surprised just like any other entity feed government or private entity will try to be certify it that's it nothing special.
[2023-04-25T16:49:03.101Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:49:13.799Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Any other questions that I'll drop this off the page here stop presenting.
[2023-04-25T16:49:28.080Z]	<Ted_Thibodeau>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:49:38.373Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: You know great.
[2023-04-25T16:49:43.409Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Sounds good and if you have if you have shareable versions of these two presentations it'd be great if you could drop them on the mailing list after this just the folks can reference if they need to and if not we can always roll back over recording but it's nice if we could you know point to presentation should begin to reference it any other questions on the queue for Gail Mark and team on and Torsten Etc on the Odyssey.
[2023-04-25T16:49:43.908Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock:  see open up the foundation side effects.
[2023-04-25T16:50:00.966Z]	<Gail_Hodges>	gail.hodges@oidf.org
[2023-04-25T16:50:05.254Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Great well maybe I can just put in the chat my contact information in case anyone has follow-up the questions and delighted to have the opportunity to share some of our work with you and looking forward to further collaboration.
[2023-04-25T16:50:11.222Z]	<Sandy_Aggarwal>	present+
[2023-04-25T16:50:11.469Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Excellent yeah thanks so much again and really appreciate the time we did want to serve okey 0q here.
[2023-04-25T16:50:43.497Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Our was that a clap and hit the hands up cool yep the cheers did want to reserve a few minutes at the end here since we just rolled out iiw just obit for kind of for open q of any thoughts Impressions feedback items to take note of for the community that may be evolving on iwi last week so I'm going to oh just open the queue and monitor at this point.
[2023-04-25T16:50:51.397Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Clio far away.
[2023-04-25T16:51:22.522Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_IdentityWoman: I mean I think something that was interesting but that we saw six different sections that had a i in them I'm in one of them I haven't I didn't go to any of the other ones but I'm hoping to sort of actually think it would be interesting to have a community call where and I was subject and people talked about it maybe I don't know so thought.
[2023-04-25T16:51:52.611Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: That is an excellent thought from at least selfish perspective as someone who's been working in machine learning for very you know or what ended up getting called machine learning to most of my career so I am happy to work with the chairs to schedule that if there are others interested in that topic feel free to definitely fire a thread onto the list and or email myself but you know on the other chairs directly if that's a topic of Interest I think there are a lot of intersection points.
[2023-04-25T16:51:53.169Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock:  with what we're calling a i at the minimum.
[2023-04-25T16:51:57.873Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2023-04-25T16:52:07.332Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Things like taking plain text and converting it into credentials there's a lot of credential applications around sources of training data and things like that as well Joe as he will.
[2023-04-25T16:52:08.667Z]	<mprorock>	ack Joe
[2023-04-25T16:52:10.170Z]	<Phil_T3>	+1 to Kaliya's suggestion re: AI. There were more than a dozen at the last ASU/GSV re: AI/conversational bots etc.
[2023-04-25T16:52:20.429Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah I actually jumped I liked you before Clea started talking but I totally agree with her I think part of what was interesting for me about a i w-was it does seem to be the seed.
[2023-04-25T16:52:20.775Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  out of a hole.
[2023-04-25T16:52:53.445Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: New sort of application of identity and what the overlap is there or how they help or hinder each other is a huge open issue from fraudulent identities right deep fakes to how can you use decentralized identifiers to participate in a public Commons where the data that builds these foundational models are a shared asset and we have attribution based on using deads.
[2023-04-25T16:52:53.749Z]	<mprorock>	+1 misinformation is a big topic - as is Verified Information Environments
[2023-04-25T16:52:53.804Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  so all sorts of innovative thoughts and ideas.
[2023-04-25T16:52:59.877Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Young but I think it's going to be a hotbed of innovation I would love to have a meeting here.
[2023-04-25T16:53:14.151Z]	<mprorock>	ack Mark
[2023-04-25T16:53:19.506Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Yeah no thanks for that Joe and I that's something we touch on for sure on our side with like a National Science Foundation I know matter as is what passed Marcus e1q.
[2023-04-25T16:53:22.682Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:53:41.873Z]	<mprorock>	@gail muted you for feedback reasons - sorry
[2023-04-25T16:54:20.401Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Yes exactly there's a lot there it's for sure I think we'll definitely has chairs you know take that as a note and try to slot something in obviously we have some of us who worked very directly in that field as members of this community and at least myself I'm connected to a number outside Community also work on this and I think there's overlap with other w3c I select the web machine learning.
[2023-04-25T16:54:20.815Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock:  group and things like that for the supplies as well.
[2023-04-25T16:54:21.759Z]	<Gail_Hodges>	As I mentioned at the AI + Identity session that Dmitri co-hosted at IIW, the OIDF Board requested a report on the intersection of AI+Identity- so I have asked community for who is interested and who has AI development expertise that might want to contribute. Personally I'd like to make it public over time, and I know gov stakeholders are interested in the issues and opportunities.
[2023-04-25T16:54:26.258Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: So it's definitely topic we're seeing more of.
[2023-04-25T16:54:28.184Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2023-04-25T16:54:36.213Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Anyone else on the cube to close out here and otherwise will end.
[2023-04-25T16:54:37.044Z]	<Gail_Hodges>	q+
[2023-04-25T16:54:42.473Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Second gear just got a nice little bit here Gail you're up.
[2023-04-25T16:54:46.970Z]	<mprorock>	ack Gail
[2023-04-25T16:54:48.693Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: I did meet you see may have to unmute because you were feedback yeah.
[2023-04-25T16:55:14.655Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Yeah I just yeah yeah so I just put it into the chat and and shared last week in one of those sessions that Kalia mentioned the one that Dimitri co-hosted from MIT that the open ID Foundation board had asked for a report and have worked out exactly how to create such a report on that the intersection of AI and identity but to get you know a read of the landscape and potentially start nudging.
[2023-04-25T16:55:14.975Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges:  into the areas of.
[2023-04-25T16:55:34.724Z]	<Transcriber>	Gail_Hodges: Unity and I'm sure some of you are hearing you know a lot of questions from government stakeholders as well as coolie private individuals who are quite quite concerned about this space so I'm certainly trying to work out optimal ways to synthesize it so if you have expertise in this space please do let me know.
[2023-04-25T16:55:49.641Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	Here is the latest calendar:  https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/credentials/calendar.  We will work on putting AI & Identity topics into our meetings in the second half of the year.
[2023-04-25T16:55:55.354Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Yeah yeah Gail if you want to just connect me and I mean obviously I can get up with Dimitri but if you want to get a little email thread going with myself for sure we have definite overlap with a number of our customer to open the commercialization the government space and there's a lot of overlap between skirts almost done so.
[2023-04-25T16:56:28.179Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Excellent well cool with that I'm just going to say Happy Tuesday to everyone please enjoy the rest of your day really shape the time from Gabe Mark and forcing everyone hopping on and Christina obviously as always and with that I'm going to stop recording at you will talk again next week so I won't.
[2023-04-25T16:57:09.431Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: All right man we'll see you I'm just booting people so I can close it out.
[2023-04-25T16:57:16.604Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Hashirama and I think yeah we can talk offline about how do we schedule those Ai and identity topics like.
[2023-04-25T16:57:21.368Z]	<Transcriber>	mprorock: Yeah and I'm almost wondering let me stop transcription here.