Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-03-27/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-03-27/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-03-27.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2024-03-27

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Mar&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Harrison Tang, Ricardo Bochnia, Alan Karp, Rashmi Siravara, pauld 
  gs1, Daniel Buchner, Jürgen Anke, Nis Jespersen , Gerald 
  Glickman, Kaliya Young, Alex H, Jennie, Bob Wyman, Laura 
  Paglione, Kimberly Linson, Jeff O - HumanOS, Phil (T3), TallTed 
  // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Yassir SELLAMI, 
  Brandi Delancey, James Chartrand, Dmitri Zagidulin, Vanessa, Phil 
  Long, GregB, Leo, Tim Bloomfield, Nikos Fotiou

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> "For want of 
  a capital, the string was lost!"
Kimberly Linson:  Recording is on.
Kimberly Linson:  And did our did our guests today have a chance 
  to test the.
Kimberly Linson:  The um sharing Harrison.
Harrison_Tang: Not yet but I think it should work yeah.
Kimberly Linson:  Okay yes I think so too and I see everybody 
  here so great all right well welcome everyone um I'm really 
  excited about today um I think self Sovereign identity is is is.
Kimberly Linson:  And I think we in this room all care about it 
  um.
Kimberly Linson:  We all interact with it when we're we're 
  thinking about enterprise software and we're thinking about the 
  the the times that we are going to have to engage with it um or 
  that we're that that we're going to have to engage with 
  Enterprise software and how can we um protect ourselves and so 
  I'm really excited to have Ricardo and Daniel and Jurgen here um.
Kimberly Linson:  Share with us.
Kimberly Linson:  I'm just going to run.
Kimberly Linson:  Through a quick our quick little housekeeping 
  notes and then we will go ahead and get started so uh just to 
  remind everyone that um this is a wonderful Community where we 
  are all Inu assume good intent um from the other members of the 
  community and we adhere to the w3c code of conduct and if you 
  want to take a deeper dive into what that content is you can 
  review it in the agenda uh also we're so happy that you're here 
  if you're um new to this community um then we're you're welcome 
  everyone is welcome in the community group.
Kimberly Linson:  And um we're we're glad to be uh as this is 
  this community group a a large voice in the space of of 
  credentialing and so we're glad you're here if you are interested 
  in participating.
Kimberly Linson:  More often more in depth on 1 of the work items 
  than we'd really invite you to go ahead and create an account a 
  w3c and become a member uh of the ccg so that you can um fully 
  participate uh in this um in this community and that the links 
  for all of that are also in the.
Kimberly Linson:  Agenda for today and then uh also uh this 
  meeting as you may have noticed is being recorded and we also 
  keep a transcript of all of the comments and discussion uh that 
  is made and we do that for uh historical um archives to be able 
  to have uh the the great talks that that we have the folks that 
  come and give their time to keep record of those um and also for 
  us as a community to be able to look back and and think about the 
  decisions we're making in the way that we're moving forward based 
  on that information so if you would like to participate in the 
  conversation then we do follow a q structure.
Kimberly Linson:  Um which is if you would like to speak then um 
  I'd ask you to put Q Plus in the chat which will flag you to me 
  uh or Harrison or Alex to be able to call on and um and we will 
  do that and at in the order sort of as received or if we know 
  that the conversation is going 1 way we'll we'll act as moderator 
  uh for that conversation if you'd like to remove yourself from 
  the queue you can use Q minus.
Kimberly Linson:  And that will take you off of the queue.
Kimberly Linson:  All right and so now we are at the point of um 
  the housekeeping items where I get to welcome you all again and 
  ask if there are any new folks that would like to put themselves 
  on the Queue and introduce themselves and talk a little bit about 
  uh what it is that they do and what is interesting to them about 
  this community.
Kimberly Linson:  And if you have been a member of this community 
  but you have something that you'd like to share or reintroduce 
  yourself after having been not here for a while um I'll give kind 
  of a a little pause a long teacher pause um to see if you'd like 
  to add yourself to the queue.
Kimberly Linson:  Okay well welcome everyone uh the next item is 
  for us to talk about any announcements or reminders that anyone 
  has for this community something that they've heard recently 
  something that they've um that they're participating in another 
  organization uh that would like to share uh or even something 
  that you've you you just want to update us about uh Phil go 
  ahead.
Phil_Long_(T3): Yes good um good day um just wanted to let folks 
  know that there is a trusted learner network uh unconference 
  scheduled for April 3 and 4.
Phil_Long_(T3): Phoenix Arizona at ASU and at least on the 
  afternoon of the third it will be a day that T3 is using uh in 
  with the support of the tln and ASU to present the various 
  verifiable credential projects that um have been underway through 
  T3 activities including uh work on a ler DC implementation guide 
  and Library resource for implementers.
<dmitri_zagidulin> mention what T3 is! :)
Phil_Long_(T3): Um a linked claims um web tool for creating 
  self-authored credentials and linking them to other credentials a 
  discussion of the recently released lrrs HR open standard.
Phil_Long_(T3): For resumes for hris vendors and related uh 
  topics so that's April 3 in Phoenix thanks.
Kimberly Linson:  Thanks Phil can you also give us just a quick 2 
  sentence explanation of what T3 is.
Phil_Long_(T3): Oh of course uh T3 is the branch of the US 
  Chamber of Commerce Foundation.
Phil_Long_(T3): Is dedicated to leveraging the Technologies for 
  recognizing uh skills knowledges and abilities and support of 
  skills-based hiring and advancement.
Phil_Long_(T3): And in ensuring that all learning is recognized 
  and uh included in such credentials.
Kimberly Linson:  I'm very jealous I'm not going to make it uh 
  out there this year and I'm I'm very sad to not be there uh.
Kimberly Linson:  1 Else with a.
Kimberly Linson:  Announcement or reminder for the community.
Kimberly Linson:  All right then we will get straight to our 
  topic for today uh self Sovereign identity for organizations 
  requirements for enterprise software and we're pleased to welcome 
  um and I'd ask them to go ahead and and introduce themselves um 
  once I turn the mic over to them but we have Ricardo and Daniel 
  and Jurgen and I'm gonna let you guys give us your full uh 
  introductions before you start your your talk thank you and I 
  hope I did your name all right thank you so much.
<dmitri_zagidulin> good existing examples of Composite VCs are - 
  1EdTech's CLR (Comprehensive Learner Record) v2, and TruAge's age 
  verification container VC
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> tangential — 
  I strongly advise changing date format from `26.03.2024` to 
  `2024-03-26`.  https://xkcd.com/1179/
<dmitri_zagidulin> the solution (to multiple LEI, DUNS, GLN etc 
  identifiers) is obvious. CCG simply needs to put together a 
  registry of /every single/ organization in the world. done!
<laura_paglione> Specifically for research and scholarship, it is 
  worth taking a look at ROR for Organization Identifiers: 
  https://ror.org/
<harrison_tang> Second Dmitri's comment on the registry :)
<daniel_richter> Us Germans are going to switch dates when 
  Americans will abandon the Imperial system. :P
<harrison_tang> Second Daniel's comment on abandoning the 
  Imperial system or any illogical measurement systems
<laura_paglione> ROR provides a registry that maps the 
  identifiers to each other  as Dimitri suggests for research & 
  scholarship orgs... (though this limitation is not strict)
<dmitri_zagidulin> @Laura - ROR is a great example of an existing 
  natural authority that'd be perfect for hosting trust registries!
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> 
  @Daniel_Richter @Harrison_Tang — Choosing self-harm is your 
  prerogative. My advice stands.
<daniel_richter> Noted. :)
<phil_long_(t3)> @Laura can you spell out the acronym for those 
  who don't recognize it?
Dmitri Zagidulin: +1 To hierarchical org structures should be 
  model-able via DIDs and VCs. (see also CCG's presentation on 
  Verifiable Governance, earlier this year, which presents some 
  options for hierarchical modeling)
<laura_paglione> The Research Organization Registry (ROR) is a 
  global, community-led registry of open persistent identifiers for 
  research organizations.
<phil_long_(t3)> @Laura thank you!
<laura_paglione> :+1:
<daniel_richter> Dmitri do you have a link to that presentation?
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> Helpful ROR 
  links come from 
  https://www.google.com/search?q=ROR+provides+a+registry+that+maps+the+identifiers+to+each+other
<dmitri_zagidulin> @Daniel - the slides for Verifiable Governance 
  prezo is 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Ws_7Fl2WIokXlRfBDafiFGZHT-Zev1CbqW2AOG5beJY/ 
  (I'll see if I can find the link to the CCG meeting notes)
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> Also see 
  http://dbpedia.org/resource/Research_Organization_Registry
<daniel_richter> Thanks!
<harrison_tang> Here is the link to the recording for verifiable 
  governance session:  
  https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2023-11-28.mp4
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> hmmm... 
  Transcriber doesn't seem to hear Ricardo. I hope recording does, 
  and assuming so, wonder whether the Transcriber can be deployed 
  on the recording after the meeting?
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> hmmm... 
  Transcriber doesn't seem to hear Ricardo. I hope recording does, 
  and assuming so, wonder whether the Transcriber can be deployed 
  on the recording after the meeting?
<harrison_tang> the transcriber seems to have bugs in the last 
  few sessions, but the recorder works.
<harrison_tang> the transcriber seems to have bugs in the last 
  few sessions, but the recorder works.
<phil_long_(t3)> The Google and Apple Wallets are "free" because 
  the holder is paying with their personal data which the wallet 
  providers sell to marketers to underwrite the costs. The "holder 
  is the product" in this case.  So free is a bit of misnomer for 
  the cost of the wallet.
<phil_long_(t3)> The Google and Apple Wallets are "free" because 
  the holder is paying with their personal data which the wallet 
  providers sell to marketers to underwrite the costs. The "holder 
  is the product" in this case.  So free is a bit of misnomer for 
  the cost of the wallet.
<daniel_richter> As for Google, this is in line with the business 
  model of the firm. But looking at Apple's revenue coming mainly 
  from it's hardware sales, I would not be so sure without further 
  evidence.
<daniel_richter> As for Google, this is in line with the business 
  model of the firm. But looking at Apple's revenue coming mainly 
  from it's hardware sales, I would not be so sure without further 
  evidence.
Kimberly Linson:  Awesome thank you so much Ricardo and uh Allan 
  is like got his hand like doubly raised so Allan forgers.
Kimberly Linson:  Awesome thank you so much Ricardo and uh Allan 
  is like got his hand like doubly raised so Allan forgers.
Alan Karp:  Yeah I I spent uh about the bulk of my career at IBM 
  and HP so I'm very aware of the Enterprise problems um 1 1 minor 
  Point um when you have a modifiable credential um there's an 
  analogy with using uh certificates as capabilities and the idea 
  is you wrap them so the doctor issuing the new uh vaccination 
  certificate would map the original in his rather than having it 
  next to it or somehow combined in another way that's a that's a 
  minor Point um the big problem is if company a issues a 
  certificate a a a a a a a credential um.
Alan Karp:  Yeah I I spent uh about the bulk of my career at IBM 
  and HP so I'm very aware of the Enterprise problems um 1 1 minor 
  Point um when you have a modifiable credential um there's an 
  analogy with using uh certificates as capabilities and the idea 
  is you wrap them so the doctor issuing the new uh vaccination 
  certificate would map the original in his rather than having it 
  next to it or somehow combined in another way that's a that's a 
  minor Point um the big problem is if company a issues a 
  certificate a a a a a a a credential um.
Alan Karp:  How many B would have to understand the whole point 
  of you know all the rules in company a for who has allowed to 
  issue the credential I'm wondering if company a can't provide a 
  single point inside company a that Company B trusts to do the 
  verification.
Alan Karp:  How many B would have to understand the whole point 
  of you know all the rules in company a for who has allowed to 
  issue the credential I'm wondering if company a can't provide a 
  single point inside company a that Company B trusts to do the 
  verification.
Alan Karp:  That that Company B would trust that uh because 
  otherwise it's too hard to understand the rules of your own 
  company much less another 1.
Alan Karp:  That that Company B would trust that uh because 
  otherwise it's too hard to understand the rules of your own 
  company much less another 1.
Kimberly Linson:  Thank you anyone else want to have a final 
  question or final.
Kimberly Linson:  Thank you anyone else want to have a final 
  question or final.
<phil_long_(t3)> @Alan's question is also related to the line 
  between in confidence proprietary information associated with a 
  skill or capability asserted and how one verifies something that 
  the issuing company way not want to explicitly describe.
<phil_long_(t3)> @Alan's question is also related to the line 
  between in confidence proprietary information associated with a 
  skill or capability asserted and how one verifies something that 
  the issuing company way not want to explicitly describe.
Harrison_Tang: I I will add a comment um so great presentation um 
  Ricardo and uh just want to Second your points uh in the last uh 
  2 slides in regards to um kind of the business model and Outlook 
  I think 1 of the biggest challenge in our community is the 
  monetization or some people might call it the product Market fit 
  um and uh you know if we could really figure out um how do we 
  actually sell SSI and I don't think the the worst self 
  sovereignty or decentralization actually works so we actually try 
  uh to actually uh figure out this kind of messaging uh as Spokeo 
  and uh the regular consumers uh 1 they don't really understand 
  and second the value prop is to this uh so they are not willing 
  to pay for it uh just in 1 of your slides in regards to the data 
  subjects and the holders uh the willingness to pay in surveys 
  were.
Harrison_Tang: I I will add a comment um so great presentation um 
  Ricardo and uh just want to Second your points uh in the last uh 
  2 slides in regards to um kind of the business model and Outlook 
  I think 1 of the biggest challenge in our community is the 
  monetization or some people might call it the product Market fit 
  um and uh you know if we could really figure out um how do we 
  actually sell SSI and I don't think the the worst self 
  sovereignty or decentralization actually works so we actually try 
  uh to actually uh figure out this kind of messaging uh as Spokeo 
  and uh the regular consumers uh 1 they don't really understand 
  and second the value prop is to this uh so they are not willing 
  to pay for it uh just in 1 of your slides in regards to the data 
  subjects and the holders uh the willingness to pay in surveys 
  were.
Harrison_Tang: Camping pace is that.
Harrison_Tang: Camping pace is that.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah this is 1.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah this is 1.
Harrison_Tang: Challenge that our community uh in general needs 
  to uh uh overcome in order to find that product Market fit with a 
  general audience.
Harrison_Tang: Challenge that our community uh in general needs 
  to uh uh overcome in order to find that product Market fit with a 
  general audience.
Harrison_Tang: I don't too uh.
Harrison_Tang: I don't too uh.
Harrison_Tang: That's why I'm still searching for it.
Harrison_Tang: That's why I'm still searching for it.
Kimberly Linson:  And that is a great conversation for this 
  community to to continue so we are at time so thank you Ricardo 
  this was a great uh discussion and talk um and we'll we'll look 
  forward to having an opportunity as a community discuss this 
  further um thank you and have a great Tuesday everyone.
Kimberly Linson:  And that is a great conversation for this 
  community to to continue so we are at time so thank you Ricardo 
  this was a great uh discussion and talk um and we'll we'll look 
  forward to having an opportunity as a community discuss this 
  further um thank you and have a great Tuesday everyone.
