[2024-03-26T15:58:34.299Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2024-03-26T15:58:34.300Z]	<Ricardo_Bochnia>	present+
[2024-03-26T15:58:34.301Z]	<Alan_Karp>	present+
[2024-03-26T15:59:01.397Z]	<Rashmi_Siravara>	present+
[2024-03-26T15:59:02.656Z]	<Ricardo_Bochnia>	present+
[2024-03-26T15:59:23.768Z]	<pauld_gs1>	present+
[2024-03-26T15:59:45.180Z]	<Daniel_Richter>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:00:21.003Z]	<Jürgen_Anke>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:00:27.451Z]	<Alan_Karp>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:00:50.766Z]	<Anna-M._Krauß_(HTWD)>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:01:03.244Z]	<Gerald_Glickman>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:01:13.997Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:01:21.125Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:01:21.191Z]	<Jennie>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:01:30.543Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:01:31.558Z]	<Olivia_Jürgenssen_(_HTW_Dresden)>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:01:49.801Z]	<Laura_Paglione>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:01:55.579Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:02:17.033Z]	<Jeff_O_-_HumanOS>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:02:41.473Z]	<Phil_(T3)>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:02:44.901Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:02:57.786Z]	<Yassir_SELLAMI>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:03:09.851Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-03-26T16:03:09.851Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2024-03-26T16:03:14.260Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	"For want of a capital, the string was lost!"
[2024-03-26T16:03:18.650Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Recording is on.
[2024-03-26T16:03:24.061Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: And did our did our guests today have a chance to test the.
[2024-03-26T16:03:28.754Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: The um sharing Harrison.
[2024-03-26T16:03:33.562Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Not yet but I think it should work yeah.
[2024-03-26T16:03:39.893Z]	<Brandi_Delancey>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:03:44.790Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Okay yes I think so too and I see everybody here so great all right well welcome everyone um I'm really excited about today um I think self Sovereign identity is is is.
[2024-03-26T16:03:49.504Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: And I think we in this room all care about it um.
[2024-03-26T16:03:52.733Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:03:59.563Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:04:11.570Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: We all interact with it when we're we're thinking about enterprise software and we're thinking about the the the times that we are going to have to engage with it um or that we're that that we're going to have to engage with Enterprise software and how can we um protect ourselves and so I'm really excited to have Ricardo and Daniel and Jurgen here um.
[2024-03-26T16:04:12.430Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Share with us.
[2024-03-26T16:04:13.349Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: I'm just going to run.
[2024-03-26T16:04:27.653Z]	<Vanessa>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:04:37.105Z]	<Jürgen_Anke>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:04:41.112Z]	<JJan_Christoph_Ebersbach_(identinet)>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:04:51.295Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Through a quick our quick little housekeeping notes and then we will go ahead and get started so uh just to remind everyone that um this is a wonderful Community where we are all Inu assume good intent um from the other members of the community and we adhere to the w3c code of conduct and if you want to take a deeper dive into what that content is you can review it in the agenda uh also we're so happy that you're here if you're um new to this community um then we're you're welcome everyone is welcome in the community group.
[2024-03-26T16:05:04.642Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: And um we're we're glad to be uh as this is this community group a a large voice in the space of of credentialing and so we're glad you're here if you are interested in participating.
[2024-03-26T16:05:12.133Z]	<Phil_Long_(T3)>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:05:27.617Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: More often more in depth on 1 of the work items than we'd really invite you to go ahead and create an account a w3c and become a member uh of the ccg so that you can um fully participate uh in this um in this community and that the links for all of that are also in the.
[2024-03-26T16:05:51.395Z]	<GregB>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:06:08.958Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Agenda for today and then uh also uh this meeting as you may have noticed is being recorded and we also keep a transcript of all of the comments and discussion uh that is made and we do that for uh historical um archives to be able to have uh the the great talks that that we have the folks that come and give their time to keep record of those um and also for us as a community to be able to look back and and think about the decisions we're making in the way that we're moving forward based on that information so if you would like to participate in the conversation then we do follow a q structure.
[2024-03-26T16:06:33.489Z]	<Leo>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:06:37.282Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Um which is if you would like to speak then um I'd ask you to put Q Plus in the chat which will flag you to me uh or Harrison or Alex to be able to call on and um and we will do that and at in the order sort of as received or if we know that the conversation is going 1 way we'll we'll act as moderator uh for that conversation if you'd like to remove yourself from the queue you can use Q minus.
[2024-03-26T16:06:39.663Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: And that will take you off of the queue.
[2024-03-26T16:06:42.542Z]	<Jürgen_Anke>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:06:59.310Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: All right and so now we are at the point of um the housekeeping items where I get to welcome you all again and ask if there are any new folks that would like to put themselves on the Queue and introduce themselves and talk a little bit about uh what it is that they do and what is interesting to them about this community.
[2024-03-26T16:07:00.225Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-03-26T16:07:26.293Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: And if you have been a member of this community but you have something that you'd like to share or reintroduce yourself after having been not here for a while um I'll give kind of a a little pause a long teacher pause um to see if you'd like to add yourself to the queue.
[2024-03-26T16:07:29.774Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-03-26T16:08:02.549Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Okay well welcome everyone uh the next item is for us to talk about any announcements or reminders that anyone has for this community something that they've heard recently something that they've um that they're participating in another organization uh that would like to share uh or even something that you've you you just want to update us about uh Phil go ahead.
[2024-03-26T16:08:13.808Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_Long_(T3): Yes good um good day um just wanted to let folks know that there is a trusted learner network uh unconference scheduled for April 3 and 4.
[2024-03-26T16:08:44.945Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_Long_(T3): Phoenix Arizona at ASU and at least on the afternoon of the third it will be a day that T3 is using uh in with the support of the tln and ASU to present the various verifiable credential projects that um have been underway through T3 activities including uh work on a ler DC implementation guide and Library resource for implementers.
[2024-03-26T16:08:49.965Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	mention what T3 is! :)
[2024-03-26T16:09:03.981Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_Long_(T3): Um a linked claims um web tool for creating self-authored credentials and linking them to other credentials a discussion of the recently released lrrs HR open standard.
[2024-03-26T16:09:14.942Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_Long_(T3): For resumes for hris vendors and related uh topics so that's April 3 in Phoenix thanks.
[2024-03-26T16:09:19.685Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Thanks Phil can you also give us just a quick 2 sentence explanation of what T3 is.
[2024-03-26T16:09:26.329Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_Long_(T3): Oh of course uh T3 is the branch of the US Chamber of Commerce Foundation.
[2024-03-26T16:09:37.372Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_Long_(T3): Is dedicated to leveraging the Technologies for recognizing uh skills knowledges and abilities and support of skills-based hiring and advancement.
[2024-03-26T16:09:41.900Z]	<Jürgen_Anke>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:09:44.376Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_Long_(T3): And in ensuring that all learning is recognized and uh included in such credentials.
[2024-03-26T16:09:55.110Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: I'm very jealous I'm not going to make it uh out there this year and I'm I'm very sad to not be there uh.
[2024-03-26T16:09:57.137Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: 1 else with a.
[2024-03-26T16:10:01.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Announcement or reminder for the community.
[2024-03-26T16:10:03.256Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-03-26T16:10:46.886Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: All right then we will get straight to our topic for today uh self Sovereign identity for organizations requirements for enterprise software and we're pleased to welcome um and I'd ask them to go ahead and and introduce themselves um once I turn the mic over to them but we have Ricardo and Daniel and Jurgen and I'm gonna let you guys give us your full uh introductions before you start your your talk thank you and I hope I did your name all right thank you so much.
[2024-03-26T16:14:28.680Z]	<Yassir_SELLAMI>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:14:38.587Z]	<Tim_Bloomfield>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:14:58.901Z]	<GregB>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:18:50.678Z]	<Nikos_Fotiou>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:30:00.055Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	good existing examples of Composite VCs are - 1EdTech's CLR (Comprehensive Learner Record) v2, and TruAge's age verification container VC
[2024-03-26T16:31:04.596Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	tangential — I strongly advise changing date format from `26.03.2024` to `2024-03-26`.  https://xkcd.com/1179/
[2024-03-26T16:32:11.192Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	the solution (to multiple LEI, DUNS, GLN etc identifiers) is obvious. CCG simply needs to put together a registry of /every single/ organization in the world. done!
[2024-03-26T16:32:24.328Z]	<Laura_Paglione>	Specifically for research and scholarship, it is worth taking a look at ROR for Organization Identifiers: https://ror.org/
[2024-03-26T16:32:42.982Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	Second Dmitri's comment on the registry :)
[2024-03-26T16:32:43.290Z]	<Daniel_Richter>	Us Germans are going to switch dates when Americans will abandon the Imperial system. :P
[2024-03-26T16:33:16.252Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	Second Daniel's comment on abandoning the Imperial system or any illogical measurement systems
[2024-03-26T16:33:49.856Z]	<Laura_Paglione>	ROR provides a registry that maps the identifiers to each other  as Dimitri suggests for research & scholarship orgs... (though this limitation is not strict)
[2024-03-26T16:34:22.781Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	@Laura - ROR is a great example of an existing natural authority that'd be perfect for hosting trust registries!
[2024-03-26T16:34:40.293Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	@Daniel_Richter @Harrison_Tang — Choosing self-harm is your prerogative. My advice stands.
[2024-03-26T16:35:01.712Z]	<Daniel_Richter>	Noted. :)
[2024-03-26T16:36:07.296Z]	<Phil_Long_(T3)>	@Laura can you spell out the acronym for those who don't recognize it?
[2024-03-26T16:36:31.431Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	+1 to hierarchical org structures should be model-able via DIDs and VCs. (see also CCG's presentation on Verifiable Governance, earlier this year, which presents some options for hierarchical modeling)
[2024-03-26T16:36:40.154Z]	<Laura_Paglione>	The Research Organization Registry (ROR) is a global, community-led registry of open persistent identifiers for research organizations.
[2024-03-26T16:36:59.372Z]	<Phil_Long_(T3)>	@Laura thank you!
[2024-03-26T16:37:06.874Z]	<Laura_Paglione>	:+1:
[2024-03-26T16:37:19.275Z]	<Daniel_Richter>	Dmitri do you have a link to that presentation?
[2024-03-26T16:37:35.730Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	Helpful ROR links come from https://www.google.com/search?q=ROR+provides+a+registry+that+maps+the+identifiers+to+each+other
[2024-03-26T16:38:13.446Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	@Daniel - the slides for Verifiable Governance prezo is https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Ws_7Fl2WIokXlRfBDafiFGZHT-Zev1CbqW2AOG5beJY/ (I'll see if I can find the link to the CCG meeting notes)
[2024-03-26T16:38:28.689Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	Also see http://dbpedia.org/resource/Research_Organization_Registry
[2024-03-26T16:38:35.935Z]	<Daniel_Richter>	Thanks!
[2024-03-26T16:38:59.913Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	Here is the link to the recording for verifiable governance session:  https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2023-11-28.mp4
[2024-03-26T16:48:35.494Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	hmmm... Transcriber doesn't seem to hear Ricardo. I hope recording does, and assuming so, wonder whether the Transcriber can be deployed on the recording after the meeting?
[2024-03-26T16:48:35.494Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	hmmm... Transcriber doesn't seem to hear Ricardo. I hope recording does, and assuming so, wonder whether the Transcriber can be deployed on the recording after the meeting?
[2024-03-26T16:48:38.105Z]	<Nikos_Fotiou>	present+
[2024-03-26T16:50:11.054Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	the transcriber seems to have bugs in the last few sessions, but the recorder works.
[2024-03-26T16:50:11.054Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	the transcriber seems to have bugs in the last few sessions, but the recorder works.
[2024-03-26T16:51:13.443Z]	<Phil_Long_(T3)>	The Google and Apple Wallets are "free" because the holder is paying with their personal data which the wallet providers sell to marketers to underwrite the costs. The "holder is the product" in this case.  So free is a bit of misnomer for the cost of the wallet.
[2024-03-26T16:51:13.444Z]	<Phil_Long_(T3)>	The Google and Apple Wallets are "free" because the holder is paying with their personal data which the wallet providers sell to marketers to underwrite the costs. The "holder is the product" in this case.  So free is a bit of misnomer for the cost of the wallet.
[2024-03-26T16:54:22.545Z]	<Alan_Karp>	q+
[2024-03-26T16:54:22.545Z]	<Alan_Karp>	q+
[2024-03-26T16:54:43.236Z]	<Daniel_Richter>	As for Google, this is in line with the business model of the firm. But looking at Apple's revenue coming mainly from it's hardware sales, I would not be so sure without further evidence.
[2024-03-26T16:54:43.236Z]	<Daniel_Richter>	As for Google, this is in line with the business model of the firm. But looking at Apple's revenue coming mainly from it's hardware sales, I would not be so sure without further evidence.
[2024-03-26T16:54:53.231Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack alan
[2024-03-26T16:54:53.231Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack alan
[2024-03-26T16:54:53.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Awesome thank you so much Ricardo and uh Allan is like got his hand like doubly raised so Allan forgers.
[2024-03-26T16:54:53.461Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Awesome thank you so much Ricardo and uh Allan is like got his hand like doubly raised so Allan forgers.
[2024-03-26T16:55:31.435Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: Yeah I I spent uh about the bulk of my career at IBM and HP so I'm very aware of the Enterprise problems um 1 1 minor Point um when you have a modifiable credential um there's an analogy with using uh certificates as capabilities and the idea is you wrap them so the doctor issuing the new uh vaccination certificate would map the original in his rather than having it next to it or somehow combined in another way that's a that's a minor Point um the big problem is if company a issues a certificate a a a a a a a credential um.
[2024-03-26T16:55:31.436Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: Yeah I I spent uh about the bulk of my career at IBM and HP so I'm very aware of the Enterprise problems um 1 1 minor Point um when you have a modifiable credential um there's an analogy with using uh certificates as capabilities and the idea is you wrap them so the doctor issuing the new uh vaccination certificate would map the original in his rather than having it next to it or somehow combined in another way that's a that's a minor Point um the big problem is if company a issues a certificate a a a a a a a credential um.
[2024-03-26T16:55:51.684Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: How many B would have to understand the whole point of you know all the rules in company a for who has allowed to issue the credential I'm wondering if company a can't provide a single point inside company a that Company B trusts to do the verification.
[2024-03-26T16:55:51.685Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: How many B would have to understand the whole point of you know all the rules in company a for who has allowed to issue the credential I'm wondering if company a can't provide a single point inside company a that Company B trusts to do the verification.
[2024-03-26T16:56:01.653Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: That that Company B would trust that uh because otherwise it's too hard to understand the rules of your own company much less another 1.
[2024-03-26T16:56:01.653Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: That that Company B would trust that uh because otherwise it's too hard to understand the rules of your own company much less another 1.
[2024-03-26T16:57:11.511Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2024-03-26T16:57:11.512Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2024-03-26T16:57:12.126Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Thank you anyone else want to have a final question or final.
[2024-03-26T16:57:12.127Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Thank you anyone else want to have a final question or final.
[2024-03-26T16:57:24.310Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-03-26T16:57:24.311Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-03-26T16:57:47.107Z]	<Phil_Long_(T3)>	@Alan's question is also related to the line between in confidence proprietary information associated with a skill or capability asserted and how one verifies something that the issuing company way not want to explicitly describe.
[2024-03-26T16:57:47.107Z]	<Phil_Long_(T3)>	@Alan's question is also related to the line between in confidence proprietary information associated with a skill or capability asserted and how one verifies something that the issuing company way not want to explicitly describe.
[2024-03-26T16:58:21.892Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: I I will add a comment um so great presentation um Ricardo and uh just want to Second your points uh in the last uh 2 slides in regards to um kind of the business model and Outlook I think 1 of the biggest challenge in our community is the monetization or some people might call it the product Market fit um and uh you know if we could really figure out um how do we actually sell SSI and I don't think the the worst self sovereignty or decentralization actually works so we actually try uh to actually uh figure out this kind of messaging uh as Spokeo and uh the regular consumers uh 1 they don't really understand and second the value prop is to this uh so they are not willing to pay for it uh just in 1 of your slides in regards to the data subjects and the holders uh the willingness to pay in surveys were.
[2024-03-26T16:58:21.892Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: I I will add a comment um so great presentation um Ricardo and uh just want to Second your points uh in the last uh 2 slides in regards to um kind of the business model and Outlook I think 1 of the biggest challenge in our community is the monetization or some people might call it the product Market fit um and uh you know if we could really figure out um how do we actually sell SSI and I don't think the the worst self sovereignty or decentralization actually works so we actually try uh to actually uh figure out this kind of messaging uh as Spokeo and uh the regular consumers uh 1 they don't really understand and second the value prop is to this uh so they are not willing to pay for it uh just in 1 of your slides in regards to the data subjects and the holders uh the willingness to pay in surveys were.
[2024-03-26T16:58:23.285Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Camping pace is that.
[2024-03-26T16:58:23.285Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Camping pace is that.
[2024-03-26T16:58:24.886Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Yeah this is 1.
[2024-03-26T16:58:24.886Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Yeah this is 1.
[2024-03-26T16:58:33.591Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Challenge that our community uh in general needs to uh uh overcome in order to find that product Market fit with a general audience.
[2024-03-26T16:58:33.592Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Challenge that our community uh in general needs to uh uh overcome in order to find that product Market fit with a general audience.
[2024-03-26T17:00:12.571Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: I don't too uh.
[2024-03-26T17:00:12.571Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: I don't too uh.
[2024-03-26T17:00:15.373Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: That's why I'm still searching for it.
[2024-03-26T17:00:15.374Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: That's why I'm still searching for it.
[2024-03-26T17:00:36.449Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: And that is a great conversation for this community to to continue so we are at time so thank you Ricardo this was a great uh discussion and talk um and we'll we'll look forward to having an opportunity as a community discuss this further um thank you and have a great Tuesday everyone.
[2024-03-26T17:00:36.449Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: And that is a great conversation for this community to to continue so we are at time so thank you Ricardo this was a great uh discussion and talk um and we'll we'll look forward to having an opportunity as a community discuss this further um thank you and have a great Tuesday everyone.
