[2021-11-30T21:00:19.176Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-11-30T21:00:19.177Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-11-30T21:00:34.222Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-11-30T21:01:23.035Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-11-30T21:01:39.840Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2021-11-30T21:02:01.197Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-11-30T21:04:01.927Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2021-11-30T21:04:02.777Z]	<Adrian>	present+
[2021-11-30T21:04:50.827Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	scribe+
[2021-11-30T21:05:30.876Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	Chair: manu
[2021-11-30T21:05:30.876Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	manu: we have some agenda options...
[2021-11-30T21:07:00.759Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	manu: Welcome to the last call of the year.
[2021-11-30T21:07:24.126Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... main focus of today was going to be interop testing priorities
[2021-11-30T21:07:27.842Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Nov/0103.html
[2021-11-30T21:07:50.358Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... but we don't have a ton of implementers, so we may want to do issue processing, specifically with an issue that has some air time: the credential refresh issue
[2021-11-30T21:07:56.781Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... any other items to consider?
[2021-11-30T21:08:21.339Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Relevant Community Updates
[2021-11-30T21:08:58.835Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... People are planning the interop testing for 2022. One goal is to make it less of an "extreme sports" event
[2021-11-30T21:09:47.601Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Probably discussions to figure how to do that and how to ensure the rest of the implementer community is able to participate as equals along with DHS cohort members
[2021-11-30T21:09:59.842Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... That's the plan.
[2021-11-30T21:10:21.574Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Another item: timeline for DIDs were covered on the CCG call
[2021-11-30T21:10:38.893Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... One more worth mentioning, the Verifiable Driver's License announcement
[2021-11-30T21:10:44.669Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Verifiable Driver's License Announcement: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Nov/0105.html
[2021-11-30T21:11:44.773Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... people can add their implementations to the test suite
[2021-11-30T21:11:55.795Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... this is building on the work of this group
[2021-11-30T21:12:10.441Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Any other updates / changes / questions?
[2021-11-30T21:12:20.805Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Ok. Then to issue processing.
[2021-11-30T21:12:23.517Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Interactive Issue and Re-Issue VC API flow
[2021-11-30T21:12:24.550Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2021-11-30T21:12:28.306Z]	<dmitriz>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/245
[2021-11-30T21:13:09.606Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	dmitri: The background on this issue is that in implementing the VC-API, we came across a number of problems that could be solved with interactive issue requests.
[2021-11-30T21:13:31.384Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... 1. There are a lot of use cases where before issuing a credentials, the issuer needs evidence
[2021-11-30T21:13:41.117Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-11-30T21:13:45.909Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	.... How do we standardize that ask for prerequisites
[2021-11-30T21:14:05.350Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... 2. Cross-device issuing, e.g., combining legacy authentication schemes with the VC-API world
[2021-11-30T21:14:23.084Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... It is likely that enterprise and education world already know their users, they just don't know their DIDs.
[2021-11-30T21:14:54.157Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... So before issuing to a new ID, they need not only  DID-Auth, they also need to satisfy their existing authentication systems
[2021-11-30T21:15:12.772Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... 3. The issuing. If we have expiring credentials, we need a way for a wallet or someone to ask for a fresh copy
[2021-11-30T21:15:32.630Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... The solution to #3 solves all 3 problems
[2021-11-30T21:15:56.608Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... This extends the flow to include the pre-requisite and a continuation
[2021-11-30T21:16:15.717Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... the issue provides examples
[2021-11-30T21:16:24.231Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Take a look. Ask questions. Any red flags?
[2021-11-30T21:16:24.436Z]	<Adrian>	q+
[2021-11-30T21:17:13.899Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	adrian: starting with this idea of continuation and cross-credentiallying. This is one of the things that is primarily tackled in the GNAP specification. Is there anyone looking at this process? Or standardizing this process of linking different phases of the API?
[2021-11-30T21:17:29.422Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... if so, are we going to be doing something different from GNAP? If so, why?
[2021-11-30T21:17:48.113Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	dmitri: Great question. The examples in the proposal are directly taking from GNAP.
[2021-11-30T21:18:06.040Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... We look at CHAPI, WACI, SIOP, and GNAP
[2021-11-30T21:18:17.312Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... We also take the did core notion of service endpoints
[2021-11-30T21:18:33.748Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	adrian: so, why not taking GNAP itself instead of taking the intent or method of GNAP
[2021-11-30T21:18:58.480Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	dmitri: GNAP itself is not ... it's a similar protocol to VC-API, but it's not concerned with issuing and presenting.
[2021-11-30T21:19:06.902Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... GNAP is great, just serving a slightly different cause
[2021-11-30T21:19:07.800Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-11-30T21:19:12.685Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack ad
[2021-11-30T21:19:14.020Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2021-11-30T21:19:29.641Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	manu: First, fantastic write up. Much appreciated.
[2021-11-30T21:19:54.804Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... a couple things jumped out. Tweaks on the idea. +1 to initiating with pre-requisites.
[2021-11-30T21:20:04.186Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... that seems consistently useful across many domains
[2021-11-30T21:20:21.749Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Another is allowing different query mechanisms to exist.
[2021-11-30T21:20:30.374Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Borrowing the interact service stuff seems good.
[2021-11-30T21:20:37.935Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... The continuation also seems like a good thing.
[2021-11-30T21:20:54.531Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... My questions had to deal with initiation (using the same endpoint as issuance)
[2021-11-30T21:21:24.345Z]	<Adrian>	q+
[2021-11-30T21:21:25.108Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... my concern with using the issues endpoint is that it is designed to receive a fully formed credentials.
[2021-11-30T21:21:49.848Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... that endpoint requires explicit authorization/authentication (an internal endpoint, not a public one)
[2021-11-30T21:22:06.539Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	dmitri: good question. Do we extend the credential input or add a new one?
[2021-11-30T21:22:20.332Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... how does the client even know which credential to ask for?
[2021-11-30T21:22:31.684Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... either application-specific (the context makes it clear)
[2021-11-30T21:22:45.122Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Or we can batch messages for available VCs
[2021-11-30T21:23:08.529Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to note that there is confusion around presentations/available
[2021-11-30T21:23:08.603Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... We can do either
[2021-11-30T21:23:30.057Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... the argument for reusing the endpoint is to allow for a rich set of use cases with pre-requisite
[2021-11-30T21:23:38.778Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2021-11-30T21:23:57.373Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack adrian
[2021-11-30T21:24:27.284Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	adrian: what do you see as the cause of the different with GNAP?
[2021-11-30T21:24:35.608Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2021-11-30T21:24:42.886Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	dmitri: need more time to consider that and given a better response
[2021-11-30T21:25:12.444Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	manu: there seems to be confusion about what /presentationsAvailable means
[2021-11-30T21:25:45.856Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... What you said, Dmitri, is aligned with what you said, but I thought the work from Joe & Eric with Mike & Orie is different
[2021-11-30T21:26:12.785Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... not sure presentationsAvailable goes here
[2021-11-30T21:27:18.391Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-11-30T21:27:25.817Z]	<Adrian>	q+
[2021-11-30T21:27:32.174Z]	<manu>	jandrieu: What's not clear to me, I heard what you were proposing on where API goes -- on issuer service... Similar to same conflation on verifier app/service -- verifier app vs. service support functionality. App is where pre-reqs happen. Having API on issuer app is good, good place for it, don't think it goes in the service... issuer service driven by issuer app. Not sure if that's out of sync.
[2021-11-30T21:27:36.770Z]	<manu>	ack joe
[2021-11-30T21:27:56.026Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to say reissuance is on app.
[2021-11-30T21:28:04.828Z]	<manu>	dmitriz: Where does reissuance happen?
[2021-11-30T21:28:29.708Z]	<manu>	jandrieu: It happens on the app -- that's where business logic happens... either we need bespoke way to tell service, service receives requests from public...s ervices don't have public endpoints.
[2021-11-30T21:29:03.235Z]	<manu>	dmitriz: You're right that this proposal doesn't make distinction between app and service -- put together before I saw that diagram, just building off of current iteration of vc api -- which doesn't distinguish, we should reintroduce, specify issuer app endpoint.
[2021-11-30T21:29:07.717Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-11-30T21:29:09.667Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	scribe+
[2021-11-30T21:29:11.311Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack adrian
[2021-11-30T21:29:41.602Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	agropper: this is a question as much as for Joe and Dmitri. Since we are skirting around the various use cases here... I see VC-API as having to serve a spectrum of use cases
[2021-11-30T21:29:54.411Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... from a biometric diploma with stricte privacy
[2021-11-30T21:29:57.360Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... or a covid test
[2021-11-30T21:30:08.492Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... or a boardiing pass or prescription that is meant to be used only once
[2021-11-30T21:30:17.835Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... all four of those are within the scope of the VC-API
[2021-11-30T21:30:23.950Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... (correct me if I'm wrong)
[2021-11-30T21:30:32.233Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... How do we plan to deal with adoption?
[2021-11-30T21:30:44.385Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	dmitri: that's a broad question.
[2021-11-30T21:31:00.986Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... a couple thoughts. yes, the VC-API is meant to cover all those use cases
[2021-11-30T21:31:19.132Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... This proposal is just about the refresh service of the VC API
[2021-11-30T21:31:41.863Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Basically, if the VC has a refreshService entry, then it has an automated renewable mechanism. If not, it doesn't.
[2021-11-30T21:31:43.543Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2021-11-30T21:31:46.636Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-11-30T21:31:48.791Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2021-11-30T21:31:58.913Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	dmitri: not sure anyone has an answer to the adoption question
[2021-11-30T21:32:22.824Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	manu: my read is similar to Joe's. The endpoint is rightfully on the App rather than the service.
[2021-11-30T21:32:37.223Z]	<dmitriz>	just to clarify though: it's /not/ being treated as a public endpoint
[2021-11-30T21:32:37.879Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... 1. This new split is a useful distinction
[2021-11-30T21:32:40.570Z]	<dmitriz>	it's an authenticated endpoint
[2021-11-30T21:32:54.554Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... 2. If we all agree it is on the App, then that makes it easier to talk about.
[2021-11-30T21:33:13.052Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... For example, it may not be authenticated in any particular way.
[2021-11-30T21:33:28.160Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... It could be a public endpoint with bearer tokens
[2021-11-30T21:33:49.866Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... So we need a conversation about presentationsAvailable and how do we expand it to cover this kind of use case
[2021-11-30T21:33:55.292Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack joe
[2021-11-30T21:34:23.849Z]	<manu>	jandrieu: A response for Adrian -- adoption is a really big question, we're all engaged at different levels, don't know what you're concerned about in technical spec that you're concerned about?
[2021-11-30T21:34:29.539Z]	<dmitriz>	@manu -- still not sure I agree. At least in the use cases in the proposal, the client is straight up using OAuth2 authentication, on the /credentials/issue endpoint. not public at all
[2021-11-30T21:35:07.684Z]	<dmitriz>	also, I think the '/presentations/available' endpoint was introduced into the conversation solely based on my misunderstanding of it. It's not actually related at all
[2021-11-30T21:35:11.517Z]	<manu>	agropper: Yes, I'm concerned about where delegation fits in -- some things are services, some things are apps, some things can/can't be delegated by subject -- tried to contribute a few cases -- cruise ship use case, relates to covid tests vaccine registries
[2021-11-30T21:35:38.167Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2021-11-30T21:36:14.067Z]	<manu>	agropper: With or without there being a biometric driver's license involved -- that's the point of my issue/question -- I do believe that delegation , whatever aspects, will make this all much more clear as we engineer the flows and endpoints. Not so much adoption, indirectly adoption because delegation is so closely tied to issuer/subject.
[2021-11-30T21:36:19.794Z]	<manu>	ack joe
[2021-11-30T21:36:47.583Z]	<manu>	jandrieu: Your concern is that adoption will be restricted unless there are particular forms of delegation available?
[2021-11-30T21:37:27.786Z]	<manu>	agropper: Concern is that we'll be forced to use wallets that are "certified" by powerful issuers like governments in mDL example and lose ability to delegate other use cases... we end up being forced into using Apple Wallet.
[2021-11-30T21:37:29.487Z]	<Justin_Richer>	present+
[2021-11-30T21:37:31.533Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2021-11-30T21:37:46.249Z]	<manu>	agropper: Use it for boarding passes, driver's licenses, and everything in between... that's the concern that's driving what I'm driving at.
[2021-11-30T21:37:47.634Z]	<manu>	ack joe
[2021-11-30T21:38:22.596Z]	<dmitriz>	q+
[2021-11-30T21:38:54.883Z]	<manu>	jandrieu: I'm confused about how adoption, authorization, and restrictions to particular technical solutions are related to one another. I understand that there will be powerful players that try to get people to use their software... struggling to tie it back to... what technically could we do, not do that would address power dynamic that you're concerned about. I agree that the power dynamic is an issue, but don't know how we fix that technically.
[2021-11-30T21:38:58.669Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to say we can't force delegation
[2021-11-30T21:39:13.318Z]	<manu>	agropper: I think we let holder delegate just like issuer can delegate.
[2021-11-30T21:39:21.784Z]	<manu>	ack dmitriz
[2021-11-30T21:39:40.003Z]	<manu>	dmitriz: I want to echo what joe said, power dynamic is an important issue... not sure it's related to this issue.
[2021-11-30T21:40:58.168Z]	<Adrian>	q+
[2021-11-30T21:41:04.834Z]	<manu>	jandrieu: Although I share this principle, Mark Miller, if they can do it, they will do it, they'll do delegation... there are use cases where that is not appropriate. It should be an exercise to let someone else pretend to be you w/ your drivers license -- there are a lot of those use cases, performing a surgery, speaking before bar, etc. Not sure we can consider a requirement that all things must be delegatable. There are use cases where delegation is not appropriate.
[2021-11-30T21:41:06.007Z]	<manu>	ack joe
[2021-11-30T21:41:25.540Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-11-30T21:41:27.809Z]	<manu>	ack adrian
[2021-11-30T21:41:55.197Z]	<manu>	agropper: This is the issue with biometrics -- have made some points on the issue tracker, probably right place to address joe.
[2021-11-30T21:41:56.876Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	happy to take the scribe pen up again
[2021-11-30T21:41:59.421Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	scribe+
[2021-11-30T21:42:15.262Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	manu: going back to the issue, where do we want to go from here
[2021-11-30T21:42:30.384Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Dmitri, is there anything concrete we can do to help that discussion along
[2021-11-30T21:42:48.074Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Would a concrete refresh spec with concrete examples help?
[2021-11-30T21:42:50.174Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-11-30T21:43:11.139Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	dmitri: one thing that is becoming clear is that this is using oauth2
[2021-11-30T21:43:18.468Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... and I didn't make that clear
[2021-11-30T21:43:35.105Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... if we agree it shouldn't be the credentials endpoint, let's find another place.
[2021-11-30T21:43:43.322Z]	<Orie>	there is no endpoit for (issuer -> holder)
[2021-11-30T21:43:58.049Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2021-11-30T21:44:00.170Z]	<Orie>	`/credentials/issuer` is (issuer -> issuer)
[2021-11-30T21:44:02.490Z]	<Orie>	lol
[2021-11-30T21:44:14.230Z]	<dmitriz>	Orie -- yeah, I think that's exactly it
[2021-11-30T21:44:22.507Z]	<dmitriz>	Orie -- we DO need an issuer -> holder endpoint
[2021-11-30T21:44:38.995Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	q+
[2021-11-30T21:44:54.211Z]	<Orie>	do I thought that was omitted so that we could use CHAPI excclusively for that use case ?
[2021-11-30T21:44:57.053Z]	<Orie>	/s
[2021-11-30T21:44:57.498Z]	<manu>	jandrieu: This pulls in Juan or Eric with regard to... how did we identify service/app for these endpoints? issuer service / credentials issuer -- we had found in use case discussion, would be valuable to identify component and route -- don't know what we ended up going with
[2021-11-30T21:44:58.923Z]	<manu>	ack joe
[2021-11-30T21:45:00.704Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-11-30T21:45:13.998Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	juan: we tried but had too many question marks to commit
[2021-11-30T21:45:14.334Z]	<manu>	juan: We tried doing that and there were too many questions marks to commit to github.
[2021-11-30T21:45:16.826Z]	<manu>	ack eric
[2021-11-30T21:45:18.853Z]	<dmitriz>	Orie -- no, CHAPI doesn't fit this usecase either
[2021-11-30T21:45:41.938Z]	<Orie>	CHAPI does address `issuer -> holder` where both are websites... and both have the polyfill installed.
[2021-11-30T21:45:42.655Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	eric: We were supposed to meet last week this hour and didn't get to it. So it's on our plate, but we could use some help.
[2021-11-30T21:45:47.588Z]	<manu>	eschuh: We were supposed to meet last week to do what you said last time... juan and I got wrapped around axle looking at this a few weeks back. On our to-do list to wrap up what you just described.
[2021-11-30T21:45:55.086Z]	<manu>	jandrieu: Ok, will try to do that
[2021-11-30T21:46:19.255Z]	<manu>	jandrieu: If we are going to move it over to issuer app -- figure out a way to represent that in the proposal would be good, not clear how we make it clear.
[2021-11-30T21:46:34.226Z]	<manu>	jandrieu: we might want to inject "issuer service" and "issuer app" in there.
[2021-11-30T21:46:36.618Z]	<dmitriz>	@joe - seems reasonable.
[2021-11-30T21:46:39.883Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-11-30T21:46:46.536Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	scribe+
[2021-11-30T21:47:23.531Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	manu: should we do more issues?
[2021-11-30T21:47:27.263Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... or end early?
[2021-11-30T21:47:40.359Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... I'm going to suggest we end early. We really should have more implementers on the call
[2021-11-30T21:47:45.479Z]	<Orie>	yay! happy december off!
[2021-11-30T21:48:03.658Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... That's it for today.
[2021-11-30T21:48:09.396Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Thanks Joe. And Dmitri
[2021-11-30T21:48:10.652Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	thanks all!
[2021-11-30T21:48:22.198Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	manu: no more VCAPI meetings in 2021
[2021-11-30T21:48:33.452Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	... Happy Holidays! See you in the new year
