Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and ben_(transmute) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-12-13-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-12-13-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2022-12-13

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Dec/0058.html
Action Items:
  1. Chris to resolve conflict in PR #480 and merge offline
  2. Mahmoud to create issue to relax text requirements for error 
    responses
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and ben_(transmute)
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Russell Hofvendahl, Ben (Transmute), TallTed // 
  Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Mahmoud Alkhraishi, 
  Yinghui (Vivien) Fan, Chris Abernethy, Ted Thibodeau, Orie Steele

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Had a couple of pairs on all of the stuff 
  that was really nice so it could be a good thing to start with.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Ted had a bunch of I think to really good PR 
  is to update the reading and it might be a good dry run to test 
  those up right because I think they also have instructions on 
  what to say as a host.
ben_(transmute) is scribing.
<chris_abernethy> having audio issues, fyi
Nis Jespersen :  Thanks for joining the last trace call of 2022
Nis Jespersen :  Let's make this meeting count, this is interop 
  day
Nis Jespersen :  Remember to sign the contributor agreement to 
  make contributors
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Nis Jespersen :  We'll start with the trace-interop pull requests 
  first
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/476
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/478
Ted Thibodeau:  This is pull requests for updating the readme's 
  to make vocab and interop to be in sync
Nis Jespersen :  There are three approvals on that and a huge 
  thank you
Ted Thibodeau:  Hopefully those approvals came after reading the 
  PR
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/476
Chris, can you hear us?
Nis Jespersen :  It looks like Chris is having technical issues, 
  let's go over Chirs' pull requests on interop
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Because trace-interop has a test in it that 
  says the context must have trace-vocab context, this checks to 
  see if the context url is in the array
Nis Jespersen :  Looks good, merging
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/477
Chris Abernethy:  Currently in the VC-data model, the normative 
  language makes id required. So this is to align the profile with 
  the spec
Nis Jespersen :  I think it sounds aggressive as we discuss on 
  another issue, but i do agree with aligning with normative 
  requirements
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/480
Chris Abernethy:  Looks like there is a conflict, but I can 
  address that offline

ACTION: Chris to resolve conflict in PR #480 and merge offline

Chris Abernethy:  This comes out of a discussion for making the 
  verification array required in the results of a verification 
  request
Nis Jespersen :  Any objection to merging 480?
Nis Jespersen :  That's it for trace-interop, let's switch over 
  to vocab
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  This is a little of a meta question, what 
  are we looking to get out of trace-interop? I think we might care 
  less about an exact error response. As much as focusing on 
  getting the right error codes.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  To me, I think companies should have more 
  freedom with how they show their errors, and we focus more on 
  having the right error codes. And wanted to check what the 
  general feel of the group is
Nis Jespersen :  Basically getting carried away with 
  standardizing everything
Orie Steele:  I agree, when there is an error we look at the 
  shape of the error, and then ignore the strings. And we don't 
  care about the strings. As long as we ignore the strings and 
  still understand the output.
Orie Steele:  I agree, I think we should ignore the strings if we 
  can use codes as all of the information that's required
Nis Jespersen :  Do you mean the `good`, `bad`?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes, that and when I was doing the tests, 
  our error responses were more detailed, but we failed the tests.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  In the case of issuing a credential, we want 
  to tell them what exactly they are missing, and that information 
  should be up to the provider.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  With respect to trace-interop, all we want 
  to know is there is a code and that means it's failing and that's 
  what we're looking for.

ACTION: Mahmoud to create issue to relax text requirements for 
  error responses

Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  A specific example was missing the 
  credential subject, and the test was saying that we were failing. 
  I'll make an issue so that we can address it.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/647
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/656
Nis Jespersen :  My suggestion on this would to be merge last and 
  then fix any CI errors that might occur from merging after that
Nis Jespersen :  I agree it makes us look friendly, and we'll 
  come back to it
Yinghui (Vivien) Fan:  This PR adds scheduled date and scheduled 
  volumne
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/657
Nis Jespersen :  Merging
Yinghui (Vivien) Fan:  In the case of an event, we added a 
  recipient location
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/658
Nis Jespersen :  We have three approvals, merging
Ted Thibodeau:  This is the other side of the trace-interop PR to 
  sync the readme's
Nis Jespersen :  Merging 658
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/659
Yinghui (Vivien) Fan:  This adds a single delivery statement and 
  an array of delivery statements
Nis Jespersen :  Sounds good to me, we have three approvals. 
  Merging.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/661
Nis Jespersen :  Next is 661
Nis Jespersen :  This is a mistake on a title, we have one 
  approval. Can we get another approval to get it merged?
Nis Jespersen :  Merging 661
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/664
Russell Hofvendahl:  This is an error with PPQ 429 that was an 
  issue caused from copy and pasting
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/665
Russell Hofvendahl:  This creates a form PPQ 449 for fumigation 
  record with/without tarpaulin.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/666
Russell Hofvendahl:  In my notes I had a bunch of tiny fixes that 
  built up, so this is a PR addressing them
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/667
Russell Hofvendahl:  This renames organic certificate to organic 
  certification which was suggested in an issue a while back.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/616
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/647 again
Nis Jespersen :  Back to PR 647.
Nis Jespersen :  Ben's suggestion is to merge this.
Nis Jespersen :  Ben's what's your suggestion?
Nis Jespersen :  I think there are a few minor issues on this. I 
  think we can merge it and then make an issue to address any CI 
  errors that might arrise from this out of call.
<mahmoud> Thanks all, need to drop now.
Nis Jespersen :  We can come back to trace-interop issues
Chirs: I want to get to 472.
<nis> ues/472
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/472
Chris Abernethy:  This is to enable branch protection so that we 
  can't merge without two approvals
Nis Jespersen :  I completely agree with that. I enabled branch 
  protection on trace-vocab, but we have a commit to update the 
  version. So that might cause issues.
Chris Abernethy:  Okay, i'll look into it and if there are errors 
  I'll see about addressing that.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
Nis Jespersen :  First is 405. Which is addressing SD-JWT. Looks 
  like the last person to comment on this was Ben.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/427
Nis Jespersen :  I think I wrote this when I hosted it last, I 
  don't think there is any action to take on it now.
Nis Jespersen :  In this issue we are suggesting did:web and 
  nothing else.
Nis Jespersen :  I think we might want to consider did:jwk as it 
  might be a requirement for CBP later.
Nis Jespersen :  Do we want to continue with requiring did:web?
Chris Abernethy:  I don't think I understand the context.
Nis Jespersen :  To take this to an extreme, say we required 
  something like did:elem or did:ion. It would require everyone in 
  the cohort to implement those did methods.
Nis Jespersen :  The question being posed here is do we want to 
  add did:jwk as a required method in the profile?
Nis Jespersen :  I think that this might depend on the 
  requirements from CBP.
Nis Jespersen :  I made a comment, we can formalize once we get 
  to it.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/402
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/359
Chris Abernethy:  I'm blocked on this issue, as we are blocked by 
  468 to be able to identity credentials by a specific id.
Nis Jespersen :  Switching over to 468, this is how to identify a 
  credential
Chris Abernethy:  The first is who is responsible for creating an 
  id for a credential, and how is this signaled to the server
Chris Abernethy:  There are a number of proposals I made, I'm 
  personally leaning towards suggestions from David Longley that it 
  is up to the issuer to provide a unique id every time.
Chris Abernethy:  And the use-case here is that if there is a 
  network error and the client does not get a response, they can 
  send a request with the same id, and then see an error to know if 
  the credential was issued
Chirs: The other part is that it doesn't make sense for the 
  server and client to keep track of id's for two different 
  purposes
Chris Abernethy:  The server will need to do a query to make sure 
  it's unique, but otherwise it looks good to me.
Nis Jespersen :  I"m thinking of the trade-off here it makes it 
  harder to be a client. I'm worried if it makes it harder for our 
  clients.
Chris Abernethy:  I think it makes it harder to be a client. But 
  compared to doing nothing at all, and I don't thank that's an 
  option.
Chris Abernethy:  If the client cares about doing status list, 
  then they need to keep track of these id's anyways.
Nis Jespersen :  What happened to the reference id, but also 
  issue a credential id on the server-side
Chris Abernethy:  That's possible, but it increases complexity as 
  you have an id issued by the client and on the server, and you 
  also lose the ability to check for issuing again to get an error.
Nis Jespersen :  To quickly jump in, I think that having two id's 
  adds complexity, so either if the server provides the id, or the 
  client provides the id. We should have only one id.
Chris Abernethy:  Where the client is always responsible is 
  proposal 6. And the server responsible is proposal 1. I am in 
  favor of proposal 6.
Nis Jespersen :  Which is where the client is always responsible.
Chris Abernethy:  Yes.
Nis Jespersen :  Is it okay to say we are generally agreeing on 
  proposal 6?
Nis Jespersen :  Is this a case where we expect opposition to 
  this?
Chris Abernethy:  We had a response back from David Chadwick 
  where a University wanted to re-issue a credential with the same 
  id.
Chris Abernethy:  Otherwise I don't think there was anything 
  specific. And if we want to make this ready for PR. I'm happy to 
  jump on this as it unblocks a lot for me.
Nis Jespersen :  Let's mark it ready for PR.
Nis Jespersen :  What tangible actions to we want to take?
Chris Abernethy:  I think that the PR we just merged markes id 
  required, I think this paves the way for conformance testing. 
  Otherwise I think a lot of this might already be in place.
