[2020-08-11T15:58:39.215Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-08-11T15:59:35.661Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:00:30.023Z]	<Orie_>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:00:30.651Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	are we still on the ONSIP channel?
[2020-08-11T16:00:38.735Z]	<Rouven>	Is there a Jitsi option to dial in? :)
[2020-08-11T16:00:43.078Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	SIP I should say
[2020-08-11T16:00:45.982Z]	<Orie_>	JoeAndrieu i am, its working
[2020-08-11T16:01:05.642Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	Ok. Thanks!
[2020-08-11T16:01:26.012Z]	<SamanthaMatthewsChase>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:01:52.774Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:02:05.483Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:02:07.247Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Aug/0029.html
[2020-08-11T16:02:09.171Z]	<dlongley>	regrets+
[2020-08-11T16:03:47.355Z]	<heathervescent>	scribes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit#heading=h.ngyk8y939osi
[2020-08-11T16:03:55.176Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:04:19.917Z]	<javaservlets>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:04:28.969Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:06:07.172Z]	<Orie_>	scribe+
[2020-08-11T16:06:23.423Z]	<abdullahnorozi>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:06:36.371Z]	<Orie_>	Topic: Announcements and Reminders
[2020-08-11T16:06:38.730Z]	<mprorock-mesur_io>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:06:43.843Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: Orie_
[2020-08-11T16:07:03.623Z]	<heathervescent>	Identiverse: https://identiverse.com/detailed-agenda/
[2020-08-11T16:07:10.856Z]	<Orie_>	heathervescent: identiverse... check it out!
[2020-08-11T16:07:41.011Z]	<Orie_>	Topic: Progress on Action Items
[2020-08-11T16:07:47.845Z]	<heathervescent>	Action Items: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-08-11T16:08:10.344Z]	<Orie_>	heathervescent: RSA signature suite updates.... #3
[2020-08-11T16:08:27.504Z]	<heathervescent>	RSA Signature Suite #3: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/3
[2020-08-11T16:08:41.314Z]	<Orie_>	kimhd: we keep revisiting this... item... discussion happened in did topic call
[2020-08-11T16:08:59.070Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/3#issuecomment-634156221
[2020-08-11T16:09:07.090Z]	<Orie_>	... we proposed closing and tracking the concern in a separate issue.
[2020-08-11T16:09:13.805Z]	<Orie_>	... manu updates?
[2020-08-11T16:09:15.472Z]	<Orie_>	q+
[2020-08-11T16:09:51.843Z]	<kimhd>	Orie_: had special topic call in JWS2020 which supports RSA and others
[2020-08-11T16:10:20.405Z]	<kimhd>	...suggest we close and follow up on any related as separate issues
[2020-08-11T16:10:43.935Z]	<heathervescent>	Topic: NIST Comments: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/145
[2020-08-11T16:10:49.645Z]	<Orie_>	heathervescent: NIST Digital Identity Community Comments...
[2020-08-11T16:11:07.647Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:11:25.432Z]	<Orie_>	wayne: NIST creates guidelines that governments rely on.... many folks rely on them....
[2020-08-11T16:11:37.823Z]	<wayne>	https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-63/4/draft
[2020-08-11T16:11:40.050Z]	<Orie_>	... they recently requested comments of draft 800-63
[2020-08-11T16:12:13.245Z]	<Orie_>	... they are discussing enrollment, authentication, federation...
[2020-08-11T16:12:26.410Z]	<wayne>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/nist-dig-comments/
[2020-08-11T16:12:29.368Z]	<Orie_>	... other community members are contributing to ^
[2020-08-11T16:12:47.654Z]	<Orie_>	... we have attempted to aggregate comments to supports DIDs and VCs
[2020-08-11T16:13:03.598Z]	<Orie_>	... we are working to demonstrate applicability of our standards.
[2020-08-11T16:13:34.452Z]	<Orie_>	... they are listing SAML, and OIDC Claims... and we are interested in seeing VCs and DIDs also mentioned.
[2020-08-11T16:13:42.329Z]	<wayne>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/nist-dig-comments/issues/2
[2020-08-11T16:13:51.385Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:14:11.855Z]	<Orie_>	... we are collecting feedback, please open issues / PRs.
[2020-08-11T16:14:38.896Z]	<Orie_>	... its important to engage here, if we want people to use these standards.
[2020-08-11T16:14:45.085Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:14:55.192Z]	<wayne>	ack Orie_
[2020-08-11T16:15:10.429Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-08-11T16:15:34.086Z]	<Orie_>	wayne: thanks for contributions... we were able to get this out in 2 weeks... evidence we can move quickly
[2020-08-11T16:15:46.171Z]	<heathervescent>	ack kimhd
[2020-08-11T16:15:57.390Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:16:07.354Z]	<by_caballero>	+1
[2020-08-11T16:16:11.683Z]	<Orie_>	kimhd: more kudos... like that this may be a good pattern for speaking on behalf of the community
[2020-08-11T16:16:23.086Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:16:25.130Z]	<Orie_>	... good model for future request for feedback
[2020-08-11T16:17:05.671Z]	<Orie_>	heathervescent: next up, sam chase, part of the community for a few years... she is gonna introduce her work
[2020-08-11T16:17:23.486Z]	<heathervescent>	Sam's presentation was sent to the list.
[2020-08-11T16:17:23.999Z]	<heathervescent> Topic: LOCI + Germ Scene Investigations
[2020-08-11T16:17:47.184Z]	<Orie_>	SamanthaMatthewsChase: Inspired by this community, i enjoy building things, dogfooding... after discovering OrgBook....
[2020-08-11T16:18:21.052Z]	<Orie_>	... we have been building a way for information sharing regarding spaces
[2020-08-11T16:18:32.310Z]	<Orie_>	... we focused on evacuation maps and fire safety
[2020-08-11T16:19:00.754Z]	<Orie_>	... we are creating a way for orgs that are liable, for capturing occupants, in safety training
[2020-08-11T16:19:42.014Z]	<Orie_>	... as we were rolling out our pilot, Covid hit, and we started looking at how we could modify our work
[2020-08-11T16:20:01.197Z]	<Orie_>	... a fire and a virus are similar... they both need to be stopped from spreading by people working together.
[2020-08-11T16:20:28.797Z]	<Orie_>	... we found that misinformation we spreading in a way that was alarming, because of the way the CDC gave instruction.
[2020-08-11T16:20:41.123Z]	<Orie_>	... it lacked the "why"... in a way that adults like to learn.
[2020-08-11T16:21:09.886Z]	<Orie_>	... we focused on creating critical safety content for adults...
[2020-08-11T16:21:37.998Z]	<Orie_>	... by the end of our course, adults have answered the questions that become the safety protocol.
[2020-08-11T16:21:56.286Z]	<Orie_>	... we realized that the businesses lacked the tools to create safety guidelines
[2020-08-11T16:22:10.685Z]	<Orie_>	... there were inconsistently applied safety warnings
[2020-08-11T16:22:20.077Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:22:27.249Z]	<Orie_>	... lots of "signing wavers" to enter shared space...
[2020-08-11T16:23:09.686Z]	<Orie_>	... we made a game, where any business can create their own safety protocols, for example, symptom tracking or contact tracing.
[2020-08-11T16:23:30.694Z]	<Orie_>	... any business can do this for free, it helps business define a code of conduct, and avoids debates on masks
[2020-08-11T16:23:58.773Z]	<Orie_>	... we were eager to use the OrgBook, because we had previously designed a credential for fire safety
[2020-08-11T16:24:43.284Z]	<Orie_>	... we are using the OrgBook as a search feature... so we can issue credentials to the org book itself
[2020-08-11T16:25:28.874Z]	<Orie_>	... the way that buildings are designed is for fire zones... they are signed off on by inspectors... they are held as public information managed by the building owner...
[2020-08-11T16:25:53.984Z]	<Orie_>	... unfortunatly, they exist only as PDFs... the fire department knows which zone a fire is in however.
[2020-08-11T16:26:19.387Z]	<Orie_>	... this is valuable information (zones in a building / entrances and exits)
[2020-08-11T16:27:05.464Z]	<Orie_>	... we want to use the existing zones and inspection information, and rather than rely on admins to manage this, we want associate addresses with that location.
[2020-08-11T16:27:18.689Z]	<Orie_>	... wondering what stops us from attaching property to organizations
[2020-08-11T16:27:35.387Z]	<Orie_>	... if we can attach property to organizations, we can start to address human use cases.
[2020-08-11T16:27:56.368Z]	<Orie_>	... its helpful to be able to see who is responsibility for the fire evacuation map
[2020-08-11T16:28:20.544Z]	<Orie_>	... credentials are maintained because people are present...
[2020-08-11T16:28:38.565Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2020-08-11T16:28:45.028Z]	<Orie_>	... would love to see how to use OrgBook to attach proof to organization via the property they manage.
[2020-08-11T16:28:48.103Z]	<Orie_>	... questions?
[2020-08-11T16:28:50.033Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:29:20.512Z]	<heathervescent>	ack agropper
[2020-08-11T16:29:29.064Z]	<Orie_>	agropper: thanks! what part of what you are doing in private and what part is public and what is accessible only to first responders...
[2020-08-11T16:29:50.179Z]	<Orie_>	SamanthaMatthewsChase: its all public info, but its all owner managed... there is no central repository for this public info
[2020-08-11T16:30:00.765Z]	<Orie_>	... anyone who asks for this, must be given the information
[2020-08-11T16:30:36.906Z]	<Orie_>	agropper: are you describing an oracle vs a credential... in other words, there is no reason for a holder, other than the issuer itself.
[2020-08-11T16:30:57.744Z]	<Orie_>	SamanthaMatthewsChase: yes, the organization can hold all these credentials.
[2020-08-11T16:31:47.036Z]	<Orie_>	agropper: if the data is all public legally binding, and there is no holder... the oracle could rely on VCs or not.
[2020-08-11T16:32:01.964Z]	<Orie_>	... the number of oracles in industries is limited...
[2020-08-11T16:32:20.077Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:32:22.897Z]	<Orie_>	... if its an oracle?
[2020-08-11T16:32:30.449Z]	<Orie_>	SamanthaMatthewsChase: not sure, looking for guidance
[2020-08-11T16:33:16.535Z]	<Orie_>	...  we are trying to use the OrgBook in a way that might be more widely used... figuring out what other public information can be attached to businesses
[2020-08-11T16:33:41.096Z]	<Orie_>	... how can i advocate for attaching public information to OrgBook entries
[2020-08-11T16:33:46.507Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2020-08-11T16:34:18.134Z]	<Orie_>	agropper: there are some issues raised around resource requests.... there are 3 components
[2020-08-11T16:34:31.248Z]	<Orie_>	... scope, purpose and credentials of the requestor
[2020-08-11T16:34:52.252Z]	<Orie_>	... for protected resources, the scope depends on what the resource server is willing to honor
[2020-08-11T16:35:21.696Z]	<Orie_>	... in general resource servers should publish the scopes they are willing to support.
[2020-08-11T16:35:30.070Z]	<Orie_>	... that sounds like what OrgBook is doing.
[2020-08-11T16:35:38.814Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:35:55.757Z]	<by_caballero>	q+
[2020-08-11T16:35:59.269Z]	<Orie_>	... the organization may choose to protect some information, but before we can ask for that info, the OrgBook must publish what it supports.
[2020-08-11T16:36:43.446Z]	<Orie_>	heathervescent: 2 interesting parts.... info about the building identity.... and gamification of safety learning
[2020-08-11T16:36:43.674Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2020-08-11T16:37:18.069Z]	<Orie_>	... games to get credentials... the second part.... seems very generic
[2020-08-11T16:37:37.918Z]	<heathervescent>	ack heathervescent
[2020-08-11T16:37:40.589Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:37:45.824Z]	<Orie_>	SamanthaMatthewsChase: yes, we use it to discover valid businesses, that could be used elsewhere...
[2020-08-11T16:38:14.814Z]	<Orie_>	... the way it works is maintaining reported occupancy / training ratio
[2020-08-11T16:38:26.224Z]	<agropper>	Dun & Bradstreet is a common oracle for business uses.
[2020-08-11T16:39:00.384Z]	<Orie_>	... proof of learning... we are keen to see in a non org book location, how we can turn these "proof of training" credentials into passports of sort.
[2020-08-11T16:39:08.324Z]	<Orie_>	... or leverage them in other scenarios
[2020-08-11T16:39:12.675Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:39:22.493Z]	<Orie_>	... not sure how exactly to use the credentials we are creating.
[2020-08-11T16:39:24.478Z]	<heathervescent>	ack by_caballero
[2020-08-11T16:39:43.553Z]	<Orie_>	by_caballero: where would the credentials live?
[2020-08-11T16:40:25.024Z]	<Orie_>	... i heard in the netherlands, they have an a centralized building registry... wondering who owns the locker...
[2020-08-11T16:40:44.696Z]	<Orie_>	SamanthaMatthewsChase: we are looking at how other institutions could take over issuance
[2020-08-11T16:40:59.227Z]	<Orie_>	... firemarshalls are the issuers of the training game.
[2020-08-11T16:41:23.778Z]	<Orie_>	... in covid scenario, we are wondering who the issuer would be?
[2020-08-11T16:41:42.666Z]	<Orie_>	... we talked with solid about lockers for employee / contractor credentials
[2020-08-11T16:41:58.628Z]	<Orie_>	... safety training leads to stickers for hard hats....
[2020-08-11T16:42:13.227Z]	<Orie_>	... investigating Solid technology that could be used a wallet.
[2020-08-11T16:42:31.847Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:42:32.544Z]	<Orie_>	... questions about credential expiration
[2020-08-11T16:43:07.074Z]	<Orie_>	... i know solid is looking at finance and banking... im interested in solving this for places that have contractors and unions
[2020-08-11T16:43:20.845Z]	<Orie_>	... were trust issues are not going away... for example confined spaces in ships
[2020-08-11T16:43:47.465Z]	<Orie_>	... we order temperature checking vests for staff, and the union squashed it because they had no place to store personal data.
[2020-08-11T16:44:14.870Z]	<Orie_>	... interested in scaling up safety related credentials that facilitate cooperation between unions and organizations.
[2020-08-11T16:44:40.447Z]	<Orie_>	by_caballero: insurance seems very related on the employer side.
[2020-08-11T16:44:57.304Z]	<Orie_>	SamanthaMatthewsChase: you don't want them to see the stuff, you want them to know its being tracked.
[2020-08-11T16:45:12.593Z]	<Orie_>	... I see a lot of opportunity for this where lots of unions exist
[2020-08-11T16:45:36.112Z]	<Orie_>	... how workers prove things about themselves, is a problem that needs to be solved.
[2020-08-11T16:46:06.931Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2020-08-11T16:46:08.608Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:46:09.537Z]	<Orie_>	heathervescent: thanks, very interesting project.
[2020-08-11T16:46:20.384Z]	<heathervescent>	ack agropper
[2020-08-11T16:46:30.508Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-08-11T16:46:45.012Z]	<by_caballero>	GLEIF, you mean?
[2020-08-11T16:46:51.945Z]	<Orie_>	agropper: asking the group: should public oracles be a use case for VCs, and where / how would we do that?
[2020-08-11T16:47:16.030Z]	<Orie_>	... consider FHIR (healthcare rest api)
[2020-08-11T16:47:31.332Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:47:49.323Z]	<Orie_>	... the data model exists... but the problem is how to relate FHIR to VC data model for public oracle use cases.
[2020-08-11T16:48:27.346Z]	<Orie_>	... when an institution has a resource server using FHIR, how can VCs be integrated?
[2020-08-11T16:48:39.206Z]	<SamanthaMatthewsChase>	q+
[2020-08-11T16:48:40.127Z]	<Orie_>	q+
[2020-08-11T16:48:42.286Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:48:51.433Z]	<heathervescent>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-08-11T16:49:06.163Z]	<Orie_>	ChristopherA: suggestion where we might want to deploy this... wyoming
[2020-08-11T16:49:31.095Z]	<Orie_>	... sec state has approved corporate registration and good standing...
[2020-08-11T16:49:39.903Z]	<Orie_>	... most likely it will use VCs
[2020-08-11T16:49:40.396Z]	<identitywoman>	HI I got on the IRC really late (but was listening) can someone please share the link to what SamanthaMatthewsChase presented.
[2020-08-11T16:49:52.470Z]	<SamanthaMatthewsChase>	loci.ca/gsi
[2020-08-11T16:49:57.477Z]	<heathervescent>	@identitywoman Sam sent it to the CCG email list
[2020-08-11T16:50:06.715Z]	<heathervescent>	+1 SamanthaMatthewsChase
[2020-08-11T16:50:17.912Z]	<Orie_>	... large mining /oil / resource companies... interested to see how this safety work would relate to those industries
[2020-08-11T16:50:20.156Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:50:34.226Z]	<Orie_>	... they are building something like OrgBook
[2020-08-11T16:50:48.904Z]	<Orie_>	... they want to be a leader in digital identity
[2020-08-11T16:50:51.174Z]	<SamanthaMatthewsChase>	really great information thanks Christopher, would love an introduction
[2020-08-11T16:51:05.003Z]	<Orie_>	... nobody has connected this to the powerful minins/g commitee
[2020-08-11T16:51:11.232Z]	<heathervescent>	ack SamanthaMatthewsChase
[2020-08-11T16:51:47.306Z]	<Orie_>	SamanthaMatthewsChase: awesome, thanks.. to adgroppers point, unsure of how those data sources would be connected...
[2020-08-11T16:52:09.458Z]	<Orie_>	... we are the issuer of our credential today, but the goal would be to have 3rd parties become the issuer
[2020-08-11T16:52:35.631Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:52:36.607Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+ on Wyoming land registry
[2020-08-11T16:52:41.407Z]	<Orie_>	... migth be easier to prove you control a property than other things...
[2020-08-11T16:52:55.724Z]	<heathervescent>	ack agropper
[2020-08-11T16:53:22.488Z]	<Orie_>	agropper: we have made the assumption that when a board issues a credential it needs to go into a wallet... seems like small number of use cases... public oracles seems larger use case
[2020-08-11T16:53:46.975Z]	<Orie_>	... as VC folks, we should recognize the opportunity to meet the 90% op
[2020-08-11T16:54:12.707Z]	<Orie_>	... for example, drivers license registry should not be in a public oracle... though revocation information might
[2020-08-11T16:54:29.257Z]	<Orie_>	... your use cases seem like VCs that don't belong in wallets.
[2020-08-11T16:54:51.988Z]	<Orie_>	q-
[2020-08-11T16:54:57.093Z]	<SamanthaMatthewsChase>	+1 adrian, great thoughts
[2020-08-11T16:55:18.534Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Orie_
[2020-08-11T16:55:21.245Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:55:23.997Z]	<identitywoman>	Yes I understand she sent them to the list. I went to my inbox to search for them and can't find them.  A subject line or an e-mail address they are from would be helpful.
[2020-08-11T16:56:00.144Z]	<heathervescent>	@identitywoman @SamanthaMatthewsChase posted it here: loci.ca/gsi
[2020-08-11T16:56:02.372Z]	<Orie_>	ChristopherA: this raises issues, Wyoming funded land registries to add data related to blockchain... in some counties
[2020-08-11T16:56:11.049Z]	<SamanthaMatthewsChase>	Forwarded it to you @kaliya
[2020-08-11T16:56:25.466Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-11T16:56:29.175Z]	<heathervescent>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-08-11T16:56:35.969Z]	<identitywoman>	thanks! appreciate it.
[2020-08-11T16:57:06.605Z]	<Orie_>	... i was able to see an example of a ranch, location, property attributes... but they guy noted there were privacy concerns... over public information.
[2020-08-11T16:57:25.517Z]	<Orie_>	... the fact that people feel privacy issues related to public info.... indicated some kind of issue
[2020-08-11T16:57:44.991Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2020-08-11T16:57:48.063Z]	<Orie_>	... scary what public information can be used to do
[2020-08-11T16:57:50.726Z]	<SamanthaMatthewsChase>	This is why a focus on reporting safety information feels like a way in
[2020-08-11T16:58:14.354Z]	<Orie_>	... concerns over terrorism related to public oracles
[2020-08-11T16:58:42.865Z]	<Orie_>	... maybe terrorists will use public oracles
[2020-08-11T16:58:54.924Z]	<SamanthaMatthewsChase>	It's interesting to me that people find this information dangerous, we have google earth lol
[2020-08-11T16:59:12.544Z]	<Orie_>	heathervescent: yes, open source intelligence is a concern... people fear how public information might be used
[2020-08-11T16:59:28.527Z]	<agropper>	q+ to: point out that Chris's point does not require a wallet
[2020-08-11T16:59:30.928Z]	<Orie_>	... its not just privacy / security... its usability issue
[2020-08-11T16:59:38.564Z]	<heathervescent>	ack heathervescent
[2020-08-11T16:59:43.394Z]	<heathervescent>	ack agropper
[2020-08-11T16:59:52.183Z]	<SamanthaMatthewsChase>	@orie, as in who can use it? or what do you mena
[2020-08-11T17:00:12.090Z]	<Orie_>	agropper: credentials don't all need to go in wallets
[2020-08-11T17:00:24.015Z]	<Orie_>	SamanthaMatthewsChase not sure what you mean?
[2020-08-11T17:00:26.273Z]	<SamanthaMatthewsChase>	Thanks everyone!!!! I so appreciate all your brains.
[2020-08-11T17:00:30.995Z]	<by_caballero>	:D
[2020-08-11T17:00:41.508Z]	<Orie_>	by all :)
[2020-08-11T17:00:53.718Z]	<heathervescent>	@Orie_ thank you for scribing!!