[2020-04-20T15:08:26.196Z]	<jchartrand>	HELP
[2020-04-20T15:09:27.029Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:09:43.840Z]	<jchartrand>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:10:02.741Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:10:09.632Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Apr/0184.html
[2020-04-20T15:10:13.672Z]	<Balazs>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:10:47.257Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Good to see you here, @Tore_Hoel !
[2020-04-20T15:11:00.010Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-04-20T15:11:09.841Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-04-20T15:11:19.258Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-04-20T15:11:38.704Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-04-20T15:12:04.609Z]	<stuartf>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:12:05.409Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:12:09.611Z]	<JimKelly>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:12:09.809Z]	<korsimoro>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:12:27.673Z]	<kimhd>	q+ to ask something
[2020-04-20T15:12:31.404Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-04-20T15:12:59.000Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:13:46.321Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:14:11.770Z]	<lauraj>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:14:20.877Z]	<dward>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:14:27.733Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: going through boiler plate, house-keeping, scribing...
[2020-04-20T15:14:40.610Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: Simone_Ravaioli
[2020-04-20T15:14:51.778Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2020-04-20T15:14:54.493Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: introductions and re-intros...
[2020-04-20T15:15:13.662Z]	<kimhd>	this is Balasz
[2020-04-20T15:15:37.163Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Balasz: introduces hiself
[2020-04-20T15:15:55.750Z]	<kimhd>	Tore_Hoel
[2020-04-20T15:16:12.802Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Tore_Hoel: from Norway head of the Ad Hoc group on Blockchain in Education in ISO SC36
[2020-04-20T15:16:25.810Z]	<adamjlemmon>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:16:40.135Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	dward: introduces himself
[2020-04-20T15:16:41.890Z]	<kimhd>	JimKelly
[2020-04-20T15:16:45.010Z]	<Hans_Pongratz>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:16:56.357Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	JimKelly: Chair of PESC Board of Directors
[2020-04-20T15:17:43.920Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Learner Record Wrapper
[2020-04-20T15:17:55.129Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:18:50.916Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Kimdh: intro the Learner Record Wrapper... several initiatives around learner record.  Jim Goodell leading an effort starting within T3 Innovation Netowor,, it is a VC based approach to unify different payloads across standards bodies
[2020-04-20T15:19:40.971Z]	<AlanD>	present+
[2020-04-20T15:19:46.624Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Kimhd: Jim is leading the work - one angle is to provide a Wallet and Wrapper for learner record.  turns it over to Jim
[2020-04-20T15:21:19.516Z]	<kimhd>	reference: T3 Innovation Network https://www.uschamberfoundation.org/t3-innovation
[2020-04-20T15:21:23.211Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: T3 is standard neutral to embrace all standards and promote ILR in standard-based way... Learner Records is very broad in scope, not jsut inside credential... includes work experience, employer records, any learning experience... goal is to develop a spec as a starting point for the ILR pilots suppoted by T3
[2020-04-20T15:22:01.594Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodel: pilots are looking for guidance... what is proposed is to based the solution on the VC structure with some aliasing in terms of credential subjects...
[2020-04-20T15:22:05.004Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-04-20T15:22:40.243Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: ... any payload is supported... plus a functional spec for the Wallet..
[2020-04-20T15:23:19.421Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: the word "credential" is confusing to people... especially in the ed space... the word "subject" is irritating to use in Education...
[2020-04-20T15:24:00.384Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd:... Data model uses Jason-LD aliasing... interesting to see if this can become an widespread approach... back to Jim
[2020-04-20T15:24:02.754Z]	<ottonomy>	voip: noise
[2020-04-20T15:24:04.120Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-04-20T15:24:07.109Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-04-20T15:25:40.058Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: learner wrapper is the focus of the meeting... sharing the link to the ILR wrapper document
[2020-04-20T15:25:48.065Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gBKx47cgxsUnTMLxqg6Poswp4-led3x51unUY42fKUU/edit
[2020-04-20T15:25:56.304Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: main docs focuses on the wallet https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gBKx47cgxsUnTMLxqg6Poswp4-led3x51unUY42fKUU/edit
[2020-04-20T15:26:34.630Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/14yZ4nkubagv4S8_fKnVK5bnMJDDzY452zUFTDctYRs0/edit#
[2020-04-20T15:26:57.313Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd:  what are the uses cases this is solving ?  several different use cases we are dealing with - sharing a doc https://docs.google.com/document/d/14yZ4nkubagv4S8_fKnVK5bnMJDDzY452zUFTDctYRs0/edit#
[2020-04-20T15:28:23.158Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd:situation where customer has data but there is no well known Json-LD context available ... you can create one or...
[2020-04-20T15:29:01.458Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: customer has data, no logical existing json-LD context, you can still represent it but you need to create context
[2020-04-20T15:29:47.276Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: not intending to expose the credntial data in machine readable format, the idea is to use VC as a thin wrapper or bridge so tools like the wallet can inspect outer metadata..
[2020-04-20T15:30:18.464Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: went through 3 cases of the wrapper...
[2020-04-20T15:31:48.477Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: talking through the doc... description of objective, picture from T3 project 10 work lead by Kim... the idea is that there is manifes with minimum metadata to solve current problem of being able to support pilot... most info in the payload... tow main use cases: system2system and self-sovereign
[2020-04-20T15:33:28.157Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: overview of the metadata ... manifest, issuer identifiers, date, type (Json object)... for each payload, learner identifier, 3 pieces of metadata around payload... intent is to srtongly recommend machine-readable payload
[2020-04-20T15:33:57.813Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: for the T3 pilot the idea is that machine-readable should be encouraged...
[2020-04-20T15:35:53.952Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: the package is Json-LD so by default payload could be Json-LD... and they payload format could indicate that... but it could something else as well... started out having separate prop for payload format and types... decision to use the (?) type... T3 network is working on a ILR resource hub but this is not where the types would live...
[2020-04-20T15:36:39.890Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: scrolling doc on p.15 diagram of how things break down... adding the use of payload type and format and compression...
[2020-04-20T15:37:05.542Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to ask Who will build the proposed wallet? Has anybody signed up yet?
[2020-04-20T15:37:13.003Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: ... different kinds of proofs... giving an example using Json-LD
[2020-04-20T15:37:34.670Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: working with a bunch of organizations already...
[2020-04-20T15:37:45.163Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: over to Kimhd
[2020-04-20T15:37:49.013Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-04-20T15:38:16.790Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Ottonomy: how the ecosystem comes togethere ? any orgs already volunteer to build a wallet based on this spec ?
[2020-04-20T15:38:58.885Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: Digitary has been looking into it... interested in other organization looking into it
[2020-04-20T15:39:44.363Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	ottonomy: requirement is that wallet can respone to queries...what channel do those request come in ?  is it an agent running on HTTP response or is it a protocl running on a user's machine ?
[2020-04-20T15:40:12.410Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: the intent is the data store in the wallet respond to queries...
[2020-04-20T15:40:28.596Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: how does the wallet receive the data?
[2020-04-20T15:41:20.821Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: keeping doors open to all architectures for the wallet, just define what the functional requirements are to be able to work with the wrapper...
[2020-04-20T15:42:18.730Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: has a couple of topics.. thanking Jim for coming onto the call... great that the ILR wrapper could use the VC spec... there are some pain points
[2020-04-20T15:44:28.840Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: Json-LD context (that defines the term using in credentials)... OB thx to the work of Nate is referencing the VC work... with ILR wrapper defining new contexts, one thing is the idea of a service that CCG could provide to host JsonLD contxt, like and ILR Json-LD context, hosted in a CCG repo and making shure it is avaible at a nice w3c url...  what do people think ?  useful ?
[2020-04-20T15:44:43.582Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: Joe any comments?
[2020-04-20T15:45:40.114Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	JoeAndrieu: worked on this with Kim and Jim... there should be a registry to host these contexts... the hosting should be adopted as a work item as an output of the group...
[2020-04-20T15:46:01.410Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: registry and hosting - two key elements...
[2020-04-20T15:46:02.688Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to ask about proof of control of DID protocols, have any been identified or proposed? Should there be an action item to identify or propose some? (This is essential capability that we will want to have in this ecosystem, with a few methods that parties in different roles agree on.)
[2020-04-20T15:46:07.492Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-04-20T15:46:19.384Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-04-20T15:46:38.435Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	+q to comment on the DID in scope
[2020-04-20T15:46:40.762Z]	<kimhd>	q+ to respond to that
[2020-04-20T15:46:52.480Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+
[2020-04-20T15:46:56.259Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	ottonomy: exciting of this proposal is proof of control of DID is in scope... have any particular protocols been proposed ? could it be a work item fo rthis group ?
[2020-04-20T15:47:17.809Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: DIDs and IRIs are options, but the intent is to push DIDs...
[2020-04-20T15:48:19.250Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: DCC working on VC wallet so would be interested in contribyte to interoperability via DID-web (?)... could be a easy overhead method...
[2020-04-20T15:48:21.638Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-04-20T15:48:27.232Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-04-20T15:49:26.170Z]	<kimhd>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-04-20T15:49:39.057Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	JoeAndrieu: a lot of talk about identity levels... we need a proof of control identifier, and I dont care how you get proof of control.... get and present credentials require proof of control... would welcome different types of provable identifiers to be used...
[2020-04-20T15:50:48.310Z]	<John_Domingue>	q+
[2020-04-20T15:51:11.612Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	ottonomy: Badgr has a WS that can function as a wallet... looking at different identifiers (even twitter profiles), love to add on other capabilities and open to work on it collaboratively as a community to spin out pilots... issuing, reviewing and inspecting crednetials... making Badgr available to play on this.
[2020-04-20T15:51:25.470Z]	<kimhd>	ack John_Domingue
[2020-04-20T15:51:35.572Z]	<kimhd>	q+ to respond to Nate's suggestion
[2020-04-20T15:52:11.930Z]	<kimhd>	I love solid + vc: https://github.com/kezike/solid-vc
[2020-04-20T15:52:32.953Z]	<kimhd>	kimhd to talk about solid
[2020-04-20T15:52:34.653Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	John_Domingue: Director of Research Lab at Open University UK, looking into Blockchain, Open Badges and Solid ... OB linked to description on Solid which have hashes on the Blockchain... have been following VC since beginning and happy to join up with this effort... particularly linking up with Solid..
[2020-04-20T15:53:09.350Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: twitter profiles, proof of control could be a good work item... how do we write that document ?
[2020-04-20T15:54:18.584Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+ to mention DHS SVIP work
[2020-04-20T15:54:23.322Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: prototyping DID-web... what are standards way to express proof of control mechanisms ? how to write something truly interoperable across platforms... that would be very interesting and informative outside the task force... there is very little focus on how learners really use them...
[2020-04-20T15:54:32.490Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/kezike/solid-vc
[2020-04-20T15:55:40.485Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: I love Solid and VC !   https://github.com/kezike/solid-vc  ... the subject of a VC is represented by a Solid profile, like OB represent Issuers.. there is a URI... Solid has same notion... Soid profiles could be recipient of Badges
[2020-04-20T15:55:48.750Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-04-20T15:55:53.435Z]	<kimhd>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-04-20T15:56:30.382Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	JoeAndrieu: there is a working bid in Interop under DHS... who are using a form of authentication over the credential handler API ... hopefully published in CCG and integrate similar conversation areound DID-Comm
[2020-04-20T15:56:37.132Z]	<John_Domingue>	my email john.domingue@open.ac.uk our work can be seen at https://blockchain.open.ac.uk/
[2020-04-20T15:58:16.271Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: one more topic -- VC a lot of reference format are in Json-LD... but also pure Json is possible.. in terms of signing process of VC, Json-LD is a first layer, behind there is an RDF-graf... RDF canonicalization ...a Json object could be signed and order maintained acroos platforms...
[2020-04-20T15:59:26.929Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: for standards that can express RDF, what are the options ? ILR wallet is an interesting example... what about PESC XML transcript ?  ... ILR wrapper shows way of signing...
[2020-04-20T16:00:12.845Z]	<John_Domingue>	[have passed on  https://github.com/kezike/solid-vc to the team to look at]
[2020-04-20T16:00:28.682Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	+q comment on longer term T3 harmonization
[2020-04-20T16:01:16.716Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: ... other options expressing VC as XML... or expressing the XML in Json-LD... if we are talking about credentials that already exists, it is about wrapping... for new credentials, we should be able to create credentials that are fully mapped to an LD context.. .to have more linked data capabilities... if we embed XML the metadata in the LR wrapper still let you inspect, or can go further with everyghing expressed as Linked Data... no[CUT]
[2020-04-20T16:01:21.401Z]	<kimhd>	ack Jim_Goodell
[2020-04-20T16:03:18.570Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Jim_Goodell: longer term goal of T3 harmonization project .. ideal state is that all different enconding could exist in the same transport mechanism... longer term is to get existing standards to leverage translation services... current project has narrow scope, as simple as possible to support transport and... both receiving and sending need to udnerstand - whether it is a PESC transcript or CLR...
[2020-04-20T16:04:47.252Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: let see the Use Cases... the wallet and the services available... how easy for the wallet to inspect credentials.. wrapper is a way for wallet software to undertand types inside... the advantage of LD signature ...
[2020-04-20T16:04:50.492Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-04-20T16:05:07.031Z]	<ottonomy>	This is great, thanks for getting some thinking started here!
[2020-04-20T16:05:48.248Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	thanks, Kim & Jim!
[2020-04-20T16:05:49.664Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Thank you for the input all!
[2020-04-20T16:05:52.385Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: thanks Jim for joining and sharing !  If you are interested in IRL do engage and stay tuned for updates !
