Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-11-14/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-11-14/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2023-11-14

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Nov&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Rashmi Siravara, Tracy Kuhrt, Robbie Jones, Harrison Tang, Andres 
  Uribe, Jing Chao, Colin Reynolds, Ed Design Lab, Brandi Delancey, 
  Dmitri Zagidulin, Joe Andrieu, Daniel Buchner, GregB, BC, Will, 
  Nis Jespersen , Kymberly Lavigne-Hinkley, Mike Xu, John 
  Henderson, David I. Lehn, Kimberly Linsons, Wendy Seltzer, Bob 
  Wyman, Ted Thibodeau, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), Erica Connell, Charles E. Lehner, Adrian 
  Gropper, pauld gs1, BrentZ, Leo, Jeff O / HumanOS, PL/T3, Brent 
  Zundel, Nikos Fotiou, Nate Otto, Chandi Cumaranatunge

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: Alright so thank you thanks everyone for joining 
  today today we have quite a bit of interesting topics here today 
  we're very excited to have Daniel right raizy jumping on and 
  actually provide some updates to the open world of foundation and 
  their work but before then just want to quickly go through a 
  couple.
Harrison_Tang: A quick reminder on the code of ethics and 
  professional conduct just make sure that we are respectful to 
  each other and quick IP no intellectual property know anyone can 
  participate in these calls however all substantive contributions 
  to any CCP work items must be member of the ccg with for IPR 
  agreement sign so if you have any questions you guys do that or 
  if you want to get a w3c account just pin any.
Harrison_Tang:  of the cultures myself and Kimberly.
<tallted> How much do I hate Jitsi? "You have macOS 10.14.6. The 
  application requires macOS 10.15 or later." and forced update 
  upon quit of the downgraded app will mean that ext launch repeats 
  the cycle.
Harrison_Tang: These calls are being automatically recorded and 
  transcribed and we published these recordings and automatic Auto 
  transcriptions about a couple days later so we have been pretty 
  good on that but if you notice any errors and things like that 
  just let us know we'll try our best to correct them we use GT 
  chat to Q speakers during the call you can type in cubed.
Harrison_Tang:  plus to add your.
Harrison_Tang: More q- to remove and you can just do a que 
  question mark on to see who's in the queue.
Harrison_Tang: Right any introductions or reintroductions we are 
  new to the community where you haven't been active but you want 
  to re-engage just feel free to unmute yourself and to speak.
<kymberly_lavigne-hinkley> Hi! Kymberly Lavigne-Hinkley from 
  Western Governors University new to this group. So glad to be 
  here!
Harrison_Tang: I usually people are a little bit shy but toward 
  the end know if we got some time feel free to just unmute and 
  just just introduced and reintroduce yourself all right click 
  moment for announcements and reminders are there any new 
  announcements or reminders for any upcoming events.
Harrison_Tang: Now or any updates on the work items or any 
  projects that people want to share feel free to just type in Q 
  Plus or on mute.
Harrison_Tang: Oh okay alright pretty straightforward again if 
  you have any questions or announcements or reminders that you 
  would want to share with the community but too shy to share here 
  just feel free to reach out to me directly my emails Harrison as 
  Spokeo.com and then now I can share that share your behalf.
Harrison_Tang: All right so let's get to the main agenda so I 
  think a little bit over a year ago when open Wallace Foundation 
  started we had the honor to actually had Daniel actually here to 
  talk about what Open Water foundations about and obviously a lot 
  of things have changed a lot of things have a lot of new projects 
  as sprung up actually subscribe to the Open Water Foundation 
  knowing this I CLI activities there so.
Harrison_Tang:  so I thought was a good opportunity to invite.
Harrison_Tang: As well as right Tracey Torsen to just come come 
  back here A year later to kind of give an update on the wall open 
  Wallet foundations as well as their project so big thanks to them 
  for taking the time especially Daniel like staying up at 1 a.m. 
  in the midnight to actually join us here big thanks to them but 
  really look forward to hearing what are the newest latest.
Harrison_Tang:  cool projects that they've been working.
Harrison_Tang: Not right thanks a lot so Daniel Rai Tracy the 
  floor is yours.
Daniel Buchner:  Thank you very much Harrison it's really our 
  pleasure and our honored to be back the open Wallet Foundation is 
  a little over eight months old so I like to say that we're still 
  in diapers but I hope at the end of the call you agree that our 
  little baby is starting to make its first steps and I believe it 
  is starting to be useful.
Daniel Buchner:   The base.
Daniel Buchner:  The idea has not changed we launched the open 
  Wallet foundation in February the end of February with the goal 
  to bring a diverse group of developers together to create open 
  source software we were very deliberate back then and we're still 
  very deliberate in that we are trying not to be a standard 
  development organization we believe that w3c and others.
Daniel Buchner:   It's like.
Daniel Buchner:  Hands for the open ID Foundation or the iso 
  Community are doing a fantastic job to create the specifications 
  everything we do of course is based on a Bedrock of Open 
  Standards but we are not going to dabble in the standard scheme 
  what we are trying to do is to bring as many developers as 
  possible together to develop open source components.
Daniel Buchner:  What we mean by components is that the wallet 
  space is a very complicated Beast even when you're look at one 
  vertical like say identity you have a lot of different standards 
  you have different credential standards you have different 
  protocols to communicate those credentials and when you're 
  interested in what I would call multi-purpose wallets this is 
  only becoming.
Daniel Buchner:  The standard for car keys and keys to your hotel 
  room door even though they both pertain to physical doors are 
  completely different standards you have standards for 
  cryptocurrencies cbc's Fido passkeys airline tickets there's just 
  a lot going on and in an Ideal World if you started with a clean 
  sheet of paper maybe it would be possible.
Daniel Buchner:   All to come up with one.
Daniel Buchner:  Torment with one architecture and you know 
  really use this one approach for everything but given that there 
  are so many developers and companies and Sovereign governments 
  that are deeply vested into these ecosystems proposing quite 
  different approaches we believe that the best we can do is to 
  bring developers together to create components essentially.
Daniel Buchner:   The Lego blocks of.
Daniel Buchner:  Approach really is therefore a bottom-up 
  approach rather than a top-down approach the idea of different 
  communities coming together proposing code for different 
  standards and then over time the hope is that if we build a very 
  large tent and we show developers other projects that are going 
  on that there will be synergies some projects May merge some 
  projects may become features of big.
Daniel Buchner:  Some developers might decide to end their 
  development and simply join another project but all of this is 
  going to happen bottom up we will never tell developers try to 
  force developers to merge their projects or to come together if 
  that's not what they are what they're trying to do we launched 
  with I think 36 members we now have 55 members.
Daniel Buchner:   Some of which are.
Daniel Buchner:  He large companies some of which are startups we 
  have a lot of nonprofit organizations and we are really proud of 
  this mixed because an analogy I've been using from the get-go is 
  the chromium project with the rendering engine blink only for 
  digital wallets but we want to make sure that there is not one 
  company utterly dominating the open Wallet Foundation.
Daniel Buchner:  And I think.
Daniel Buchner:  When you look at the roster of companies so far 
  we're doing an okay job to really have a diverse community of 
  members.
Daniel Buchner:  Before the end of the year we're going to 
  formally launch the government advisory Council which is 
  something that is rare for a Linux Foundation project we looked 
  at other gags specifically the government advisory Council of I 
  can in the domain space and the reason why we're so excited about 
  the GAC is that a lot of the credentials in wallets or going to 
  be private like.
Daniel Buchner:   Car keys like airline tickets.
Daniel Buchner:  The credentials obviously are going to be public 
  like a driver's license or an ID card or maybe the green card in 
  the US.
Daniel Buchner:  So fundamentally we believe that it is crucial 
  to bring both the public sector and the private sector together 
  to create meaningful discussion in order to get closer to the 
  ultimate vision of having globally interoperable multi-purpose 
  wallets.
Daniel Buchner:  We have at the moment already nine countries 
  that formally signed up to join the governmental advisory Council 
  and we're really excited to talk more about it before the end of 
  the year the heart of the open Wallet Foundation however are not 
  the members or the government's the Heart of Open Wallet really 
  are the developers and the maintainers and they are called 
  projects as well as some really exciting.
Daniel Buchner:   Ting special interest groups.
Daniel Buchner:  And I'm really excited that Tracy Kurt is on the 
  call she's the chair of the technical advisory Council of the 
  open Wallet foundation and Tracy I hope you might be able to give 
  a quick overview of those of those projects and then whenever 
  someone has a question please use the chat or S Harrison said 
  unmute yourself you know anyone can go to open wallet that 
  Foundation.
Daniel Buchner:  Almost everything we do is transparent hopefully 
  this is an opportunity not just for us to present but really to 
  answer any question you may have.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Sorry let me come off mute first and then try to 
  share my screen so thank you Daniel for that I do have some 
  slides I'm going to share so you know I won't be able to see the 
  chat or question so if anybody does have any just got me please 
  and we could go through them so those first part of the 
  presentation is really exactly what Daniel has already said which 
  is what the open Wally presentation.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  is home.
Tracy_Kuhrt: A neutral home for open source project supporting 
  the development of interval interoperable digital wallet the open 
  source Community is 100% open night so it's a technical community 
  that we expect anybody to be able to come in and participate in 
  and you do not need to be a member of the open Wallet foundation 
  in order to contribute code contribute your ideas contribute your 
  thoughts and we'll talk about the places where.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  you might bring your ideas and thoughts and there 
  are few people I've seen.
Tracy_Kuhrt: All that have joined a lot of these calls already so 
  thank you for that well hopefully not bore you too much with 
  things that you've already seen but if you do obviously have 
  anything to add to this group please do add that one of the 
  things that I think is important is that you know we should talk 
  about this sorts of code that should be contributed Daniel talked 
  about components that we can have built for us in the open 
  source.
Tracy_Kuhrt: And the architecture sing the special interest group 
  focused on architecture at one point had a brainstorm about the 
  type of topics that we think should go into a digital wallet 
  engine architecture and you can see those listed here on the 
  screen I do think that you know this is probably not all 
  inclusive it's a good list but it's probably not a complete list 
  and so if there are other things that people think are important 
  to add.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  to this list or to bring.
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nlMYXHJykyhhdhnuSi6sUDpeaVgYHkIkqQON8FGRZKE/edit?usp=sharing
Tracy_Kuhrt: Potential projects within the open Wallet Foundation 
  then obviously please do that don't hesitate to bring your ideas 
  and thoughts to this community so Daniel asked me to kind of go 
  through the different projects that we have and the special 
  interest groups while I'm doing this let me also just place in 
  the chat a link to the slide so that if anybody would like to 
  have a link to the slides they can have a link to the slides.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Today we have developed within the technical 
  advisory console a Project Life Cycle for projects that come into 
  the open Wallet Foundation those projects start with a proposal 
  to the technical advisory Council and that proposal must be 
  accepted by the technical advisory Council in order to be 
  accepted into the open Wallet Foundation now the technical 
  advisory council is currently made up of.
Tracy_Kuhrt: A member of Premier Companies as well as a member to 
  members of the at-large community in the future we expect that 
  this will probably change to better reflect the sorts of projects 
  that we do have in the open Wallet Foundation but currently in 
  order to get us started this is this is where we started the 
  active stages that a project can be in our Labs growth.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  and impact solo.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Our projects that are really have the potential to 
  be very important to the open Wallet Foundation ecosystem but 
  they are maybe early or experimental in the work that they're 
  doing and they're really looking to foster a collaborative 
  development environment within the open Wallet Foundation 
  community so bringing other people who are also interested in 
  developing that Source base together in order to ensure that 
  those projects become either.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  oh Thor impact projects in the future.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Projects are projects that are really a bit beyond 
  the early and experimental stage they built a community of 
  different sorts of maintainers they're really looking to grow 
  that Community beyond what it is now potentially looking to 
  figure out how to do releases within the projects and you know 
  really what we would consider maybe a teenager sort of thing 
  right where those those.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  let's have some sort of.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Not complete majority of being used in different 
  sorts of production environments now the impact projects on the 
  other hand have really reached those girl pools that they've set 
  out for themselves there's their sustaining a good cycle of 
  development and maintenance and long-term support for those 
  projects they have been used in production projects so potential 
  wallets that are out there being used by the larger ecosystem.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  system and so those are what we would consider 
  impact.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Projects the next stage that we have obviously is we 
  all know that software goes through a life cycle where typically 
  they reach an end of life where they're not being maintained 
  anymore because there's something new that's come out potentially 
  and has replaced it or the maintainers have moved on to something 
  else and so the Emeritus stage is what we would consider are in 
  an active stage.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Any questions on that.
Harrison_Tang: Now I don't see any questions.
Harrison_Tang:  I don't.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Sounded like maybe somebody came up with okay it's 
  settled love you too when to make sure there was nothing there so 
  then if we take a look at our current projects so these are the 
  projects that have been acceptance accepted into the open Wallet 
  Foundation they're currently all in Labs stage so they're very 
  early in their development stage and there are people that have 
  brought these to the open Wallet Foundation are.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  are again looking to have people come in.
Tracy_Kuhrt: And help develop these code projects that we have.
Tracy_Kuhrt: I don't know whose immediate but there is some 
  background noise just if you are the person who is on the unit so 
  those projects that we have there right now listed here in order 
  of when they were accepted or approved into the open Wallet 
  Foundation but we do have three different projects or focused on 
  St John's so Joshua selective disclosure there in Python kotlin 
  and JavaScript we have a project.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  it is called the farm worker wallet operating.
Tracy_Kuhrt: This is load code components for the mendax platform 
  that can be used to create digital wallets we had a conversation 
  IW that maybe this was a poorly named project because it isn't 
  necessarily focused completely on Farm Workers but really on 
  those load code components so there was a discussion about 
  whether or not the maintainers wanted to rename this obviously 
  the maintainers haven't come to us and asked us for that yet so 
  it is still named the farm worker.
Tracy_Kuhrt: But if you are interested in low code and 
  specifically the men decks platform then it's very possible that 
  you could work with them to develop additional components that 
  could be used to create digital wallets we've got the verifiable 
  credential API so this is currently a draft standard but it is an 
  implementation of that draft standard that is in rest that 
  includes operations such as credential issuance verification.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  and exchange we also have.
Tracy_Kuhrt: You want from work done.
Tracy_Kuhrt: So this was a project that actually started in the 
  hyper laser Foundation it used to be called Aries dotnet and it 
  became non maintained in the hyper Ledger Foundation but the 
  there has been some work that's being done by the maintainers of 
  this project and they wanted to bring this specifically to the 
  open Wallet foundation and they want to expand the work that it 
  has already done.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  to enable.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Of the open ID for VC and the SD jut verifiable 
  credential so really focusing in on the European identity while 
  initiative objectives we have a project that we're currently 
  calling alloy we're still trying to figure out if that is a good 
  project game or if we need another project name but this is the 
  proposal by Google to bring in their Android libraries and 
  reference applications for working with verifiable credentials 
  and identity.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  so that.
Tracy_Kuhrt: We'll figure out what the right team is for that but 
  hopefully we'll get that one right over to the open world 
  Foundation repositories here shortly and then just as an FYI we 
  do actually have two more proposals that are in the pipe that we 
  will be reviewing at tomorrow's technical advisory council 
  meeting there also for SD jot implementations one in.net and one 
  in Rust now the interesting thing with the the.net.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  that one is you can see that.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Wallet framework dotnet project is interested in 
  developing SDG&E for verifiable credentials and so what one of 
  the things I suggested to the proposers of the sdg dotnet is that 
  they work with the wallet framework dotnet folks to work together 
  to implement that so that there's not duplicative work that's 
  ongoing but that's one of the great things about the open source 
  projects like this is that you can't really have a conversation 
  and start to see where.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  where there's interest across.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Jax I'm really hopefully bring them together in a 
  collaborative format to you to work together now as Daniel said 
  that it's completely up to maintainers as to whether they follow 
  through on that but it is something that we can offer to them as 
  a suggestion to see if that's something that they would like to 
  work on.
Tracy_Kuhrt: All right any questions on the the project before I 
  move off to the community meetings which are the special interest 
  groups in the past courses.
Harrison_Tang: Sorry I got a question do you mind kind of 
  clarifying between what's the difference between like wallet 
  framework dotnet and farmworker wallet are they just different 
  initiatives in building a basically a digital wallet.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Yeah it's separate initiatives you know brought to 
  you the opening light Foundation from different sets of 
  maintainers the farm worker wallet OS Project was brought to us 
  by into dad and the United Farm Workers Association and you know 
  what they had done was they had developed a digital wallet 
  specifically for.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  or markers.
Tracy_Kuhrt: And they said well there's pieces here that can be 
  used by other people who want to create digital wallets but maybe 
  aren't as expert in the the area of code development and so if we 
  bring these little components that we built for the mendax 
  platform into the open want Foundation then there are other 
  people who might also want to use the mendax platform to create 
  their own wallet initiatives so really this is about the 
  complete.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Physically about the farm worker wallet and then the 
  wallet framework dotnet is implementation in.net of different 
  sorts of protocols that are used for verifiable credentials as I 
  mentioned it started in Aries as implementing the area's profile 
  I think it was version one that they implement it and so that 
  project kind of reached an end.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  end of life within the.
Tracy_Kuhrt: And put a set of people said you know what this is 
  something that we think is really interesting and could be used 
  as we develop wallets for the European identity wallet and so we 
  should bring that code into the open Wallet Foundation where we 
  can continue the work that was started in the hyper Ledger 
  Foundation by adding to that things like the open ID for 
  verifiable credentials in the SD job verifiable credentials 
  implementation.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  so all of these projects are.
Tracy_Kuhrt: In the set of maintainers that have brought these 
  projects to the open Wallet Foundation they all have a different 
  idea about how they would go about developing the the wallet 
  component for others to use in the future and and so we're giving 
  these maintainers a space within the open Wallet Foundation to do 
  that development and hopefully bring others along who are also 
  interested in developing the.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  the same.
Tracy_Kuhrt: There are potentially within the same language using 
  our language framework that that is exist for these different 
  projects so hopefully that gave a good idea but the difference is 
  here.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you it will need the or concerns about the 
  overlap of work because since they are all about building wallets 
  like can there be like yeah like redundancies in some ways other 
  such concern we're not really.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Yeah I mean obviously there's don't know if it's a 
  concern but there is a it is something that we're watching right 
  within the technical advisory Council as we bring these projects 
  in you know this this SE jot dotnet which isn't missing here 
  because it hasn't been approved yet is something that when they 
  proposed it I was like you know what I already know that the 
  wallet framework done that wants to do similar sort of work.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  so can you work with these people.
Tracy_Kuhrt: I have a project proposed to if nothing else have 
  them used your implementation of the SD jot in.net in bring that 
  into as a library into the wallet framework dotnet right so we're 
  definitely keeping an eye on I'm kind of these overlaps if you 
  will because we do expect that there will be a number of 
  different overlaps people have different ideas about ways to 
  implement things they have different programming languages that 
  they're looking.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  going to you.
Tracy_Kuhrt: And so we want to see before we bring projects into 
  that growth stage or that impact stage that they have worked with 
  the rest of the community they've had these conversations about 
  ways in which you know they might work together you know and grow 
  that Community to focus on you know implementing together and you 
  know obviously we'll see how this all works out in the future but 
  there is definitely something that is if not.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  top of mind.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Of our minds as we review these different project 
  proposals that come in.
Harrison_Tang: Got it thank you.
Harrison_Tang: Sorry I got one more curiosity question so we all 
  know that Google has a wallet right on their Android platform so 
  they are they are bringing alloy into Open Water foundations 
  because they want to Foster like basically like an open Wallet 
  ecosystem is that is that what it is or like because I think some 
  people might think that platforms as innate incentives to 
  actually protect their own services but in this case I seems the 
  opposite.
Harrison_Tang:  I just want just want to see if you have any 
  insight.
Harrison_Tang: Is proprietary or confidential information you 
  don't have to share it.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Yeah I don't have anything specific although I do 
  know obviously Google is Big open source supporter they have 
  obviously open-source Android they've open sourced a lot of a lot 
  of projects under CN CF so I think in this particular case 
  wallets is a area of interest for them and they want to ensure 
  that people you know can use the different open source libraries 
  that they're developing.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  and I you know again my.
Tracy_Kuhrt: So opinion about probably why they brought it to the 
  open Wallet Foundation is that this was obviously a place that 
  made sense for them to bring this and there are so many people 
  focused in on identity and and really allowing people to use 
  these Android libraries well you know increase that ecosystem and 
  benefit that ecosystem but then you I don't know you may have had 
  other conversations with Google was as to why they were 
  contributing.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  it's code to the open Wallet Foundation 
  specifically but.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Not sure if you have any additional adds to that.
Daniel Buchner:  Yeah I mean we cannot speak on behalf of Google 
  of course I do think from our conversations with Google with 
  Google that they do like the fact that we're not religious we're 
  not trying to push people in a certain direction and we are 
  really aiming to create code that is useful in as many countries 
  for as many use cases as possible and when you are someone who 
  has a wallet that.
Daniel Buchner:   It is.
Daniel Buchner:  By so many people in so many countries I think 
  that is an attractive proposition and there will also be some 
  announcements with regards to Google code and code that the 
  European Union is using their reference wallet in the future so 
  stay tuned we hope to have some nice announcements in the next 
  one or two months.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you thanks.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Anything else on the the projects.
Harrison_Tang: Now I think the right now there's no other 
  questions.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Okay so then let's move on to the community meetings 
  that we have so we do have a number of different types of 
  meetings within the open Wallet Foundation we do have the 
  governance type meetings the technical adviser console is 
  completely open to anyone who would like to join this is where we 
  talk about the governance of the technical community setting 
  things like the Project Life Cycle you know developing any sort 
  of process.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  s's that will help us better understand.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Health of these different projects and that sort of 
  work is ongoing there we also do within the technical advisor 
  console except to special interest groups and task forces that 
  would like to operate under the banner of the open Wallet 
  foundation and then we obviously maintain a history of what's 
  going on in those different special interest groups and task 
  forces so so kind of getting a.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  updates about what's happening there.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Being brought back to the the technical advisor 
  console we actually have our first update coming tomorrow in our 
  meeting on the open ID for VC due diligence task force we do have 
  the government advisory console that Daniel mentioned this is 
  made up of different governments and is obviously no set for 
  those particular audiences and we do have the governing board 
  that is focused on things like strategy and the.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  it for the open Wallet Foundation.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Do you have special interest groups so a number of 
  those have already been formed within the open Wallet Foundation 
  I think I mentioned the architecture special interest group that 
  came up with that brainstorm a list of components basically what 
  we've been doing there as we started out we were talking to a 
  number of different folks and having them do presentations on 
  different aspects of the different sorts of architectures for 
  wallets so we've had.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  oceans on things like backup and Recovery we've 
  had.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Turns on what it would look like to maybe have a 
  plug-in architecture within the open Wallet foundation and a 
  number of different people who done work in this space already 
  come in and have conversations with the architecture Sig for the 
  last few months what we've been doing is trying to have a 
  specific discussion on the components so core components that we 
  think would be necessary for a digital wallet and what those 
  sorts of requirements and the architecture might.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  might look like for that so one of the big ones 
  that we were did work through is.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Key Management Services and we've got a document 
  that is out there that talks about you know the way that we might 
  architect that as well as some of the trade-offs obviously it 
  also talks about the principles that we would expect to have and 
  so I think that's a really good sort of format for what we would 
  like to get continuing out of the architecture special interest 
  group yesterday we did have Google come in and have a 
  conversation with us about the different.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  the apis that.
Tracy_Kuhrt: On which is work that's ongoing in actually another 
  standards group but it is information that I think is very useful 
  to have presented to this group within the open Wallet Foundation 
  to understand what's happening that outside the space of the open 
  Wallet Foundation that are going to basically Drive different 
  sorts of requirements coming in to digital wallets the second 
  special interest group that we have is a credential format 
  comparison special interest.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  poop so this group is.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Based on comparing the different sorts of credential 
  formats so they actually have a table it started at I think a 
  pass iiw or maybe another conference where they started putting 
  this together and they're continuing to work in the discussion 
  around that particular table and its output in the open Wallet 
  foundation so you know we can obviously point you to all of the 
  the good output that's coming from this group.
Tracy_Kuhrt: They looking at a number of different credential 
  formats and comparing and contrasting those also allowing for you 
  to filter on the different sorts of attributes that exist within 
  that comparison table so that you can see they're specifically if 
  you're looking for something that supports selective disclosure 
  you can see the different sorts of credential formats that decent 
  Sports selective disclosure and those sorts of things so really 
  interesting work that's ongoing there and.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  you know they have a.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Ages that we can point you to that you can actually 
  see the output from that work that's being done there the digital 
  wallets and agents overview Stig is something that recently 
  started they had one meeting so far but their intention is to 
  create a table that has a different overviews of both digital 
  wallets in agents and allows people to do both comparison of what 
  exists out there today.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Is potentially seeing where put potential additional 
  features could be added to wallets or agents that other while 
  it's an agent potentially support and so you know the hope is 
  really that there will be a similar sort of table that exists 
  online that people can go to and and filter on and see specific 
  information about the available digital wallets agents that are 
  out there the safe wallet Sig is.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  focus in on defining what it means.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Wallet so focusing in on different sorts of 
  categories that can be used things like accountability things 
  like security things like auditability and a number of different 
  I think there's 10 different categories that are being defined 
  for what it is but really looking at you know helping at a very 
  basic easy to understand and readable by a number of different.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  audiences to.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Means to have a safe wallet come so you know really 
  defining the criteria behind each of these different categories 
  for best practices for safe wallet and then potentially being 
  able to allow folks to score their wallets against this criteria 
  to see how many of those are met and then obviously we know that 
  you know for different sorts of use cases you might need 
  different sorts of safety requirements and so.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  so being able to see if a particular wallet.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Requirements based on the use case that you have in 
  mind and so those are our special interest groups and then the 
  the other type of meeting that we have our task forces so these 
  are supposed to be short running focused in on a particular task 
  and working to complete that task within a certain amount of time 
  so the open ID for VC due diligence task force was created to 
  really.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  really understand what the.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Oh I do.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Specification is and then to find projects that we 
  might be able to bring into the open warrant Foundation to 
  support those requirements and that specification and so that 
  work is ongoing they are currently working very closely with the 
  people from the oid foundation the open ID foundation and 
  currently working on trying to define a baseline sort of.
Tracy_Kuhrt: What it would be to allow for different 
  interoperable type bullets so lots of work going on there I 
  actually think that this task force has turned into more of a 
  special interest group that is more long-running but also has 
  some tasks that they're trying to to create and so I know they 
  have an update tomorrow and we might have a conversation about 
  you know whether it makes sense for them to continue as a task 
  force or whether it makes more sense for them to move into that 
  special interest groups and say oh.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  definitely longer running sort of.
Tracy_Kuhrt: A group that's having conversations specifically 
  around the open ID for VC specifications.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Questions on the the meetings that we have within 
  the open Wallet foundation and the work that they're doing.
Harrison_Tang: Not at this moment.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Okay that's fine.
Tracy_Kuhrt: All right so if you would like to get involved there 
  are a few different mechanisms for you to do so we do have a set 
  of mailing list that you can subscribe to we have the technical 
  advisory Council mailing list that will provide you with the 
  meeting agenda and meeting notes from any of the technical 
  advisory Council meetings that we have we have a mailing list is 
  called technical discussed where a number of different technical.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  discussions go.
Tracy_Kuhrt: And so you know if you are interested in joining any 
  of the mailing list feel free to go and subscribe to those we 
  also have a Discord server the Discord server has channels for 
  the different projects that we have as well as the different 
  special interest groups that task force is the technical advisor 
  Consul and so you know there's a lot of communication that is 
  ongoing in those if you're interested in getting involved in one 
  of those special interest groups or the task.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  of course you can always join those discussions 
  and.
Tracy_Kuhrt: You what's going on in those specific areas we have 
  two different github's we have the main open Walnut Dash 
  Foundation GitHub organization where we expect any impact and 
  growth stage projects to exist but it also has the governance the 
  special interest group in the task force repos if they have every 
  Bill and then we have a GitHub for the labs into this is where 
  today you can find all of the different projects that.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  a different source code for the different projects 
  that we currently have.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Should we also have a community calendar it's a 
  Google Calendar that shows all of the different project meetings 
  I'm sorry all of the different meetings that we have on the 
  calendar so those special interest groups to task Force's 
  technical advisory council meeting and so if you're interested in 
  taking a look and joining one of our calls please don't hesitate 
  to join this is your invitation don't need an invitation but if 
  you are interested in joining us please don't hesitate.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  Tate to join us and participate in the discussions 
  that we're having.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Just bring this light up which is our sponsors 
  within the overall and Foundation I know Daniel already mentioned 
  our sponsors but this is who if you'd like to see their 
  particular logos on a single screen on this is he's actually 
  sponsoring the open world Foundation as of when I put these 
  slides together always and last week so yeah I think that's it 
  for me and if you do have any questions or Daniel if you'd like 
  to close out.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  with anything.
Tracy_Kuhrt: I guess it's time to do that.
Daniel Buchner:  Maybe just one more comment we recently 
  announced Partnerships with both EMV Co and the fighter Alliance 
  the idea of these liaison agreements is to build code on top of 
  those standards and to work with those organizations to identify 
  both relevant members as well as relevant projects and you know 
  we would love to do to enter a.
Daniel Buchner:   Allure arrangement with.
Daniel Buchner:  See we are in touch with some people at w3c and 
  we very much hope that this is going to happen because as we said 
  at the beginning we are not standard development organization we 
  are dependent on those standards and we're trying to bring people 
  together who are interested in great reference code great 
  libraries on top of those standards Tracy thank you very much for 
  for this presentation I hope you learn something.
Daniel Buchner:   Thing I hope.
Daniel Buchner:  Some some questions either now or you know via 
  email drop us a line we're always interested to hear from you.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Just one other comment on this particular slide deck 
  there are a number of Links at the end of this document that will 
  take you to information about the different projects or the 
  different Community meetings or even our governance documents so 
  if you are interested in taking a deeper look please don't 
  hesitate to do that.
Harrison_Tang: So I do have one question so I see that there is a 
  special interest group called digital wallet and agent so I'm 
  wondering if you're using the term digital wallet agent 
  interchangeably or is there a difference between the two.
<ry_jones> Discord invite: 
  https://discord.com/invite/openwalletfoundation
Daniel Buchner:  It's a great question and please go ahead Tracy.
Tracy_Kuhrt: Yep so yeah I was just going to say the the way in 
  which the special interest group is defining those is slightly 
  different the wallet I believe they're defining more in terms of 
  the holder wallet and then the agents are more around the issuer 
  and the verifier side but yeah I'd have to I'd have to 
  specifically.
Tracy_Kuhrt:  look at the.
Tracy_Kuhrt: The way in which they've defined it in the the 
  GitHub repo in order to completely answer that question but I'm 
  pretty sure I got that right.
Harrison_Tang: Cool thanks Adrian.
https://github.com/openwallet-foundation/digital-wallet-and-agent-overviews-sig
Adrian Gropper:  Yes so we've recently seen for civil society 
  organizations starting to talk about this they were doing it in 
  the context of TSA related wallets to organize and coordinate 
  their responses to what's going on can you say anything about.
Adrian Gropper:  Your strategy or your your experience so far in 
  trying to bring in outfits like uff ACLU CDT and Epic into this 
  work.
Daniel Buchner:  Adrian this is a brilliant question the report 
  you mentioned actually includes a brief reference to open Wallet 
  foundation and we have reached out to them in the past and use 
  the fact that they mentioned open wallet to reach out again Civil 
  Society organizations I think are naturally and probably with 
  good reason we re whenever someone reaches out.
Daniel Buchner:   Out that.
Daniel Buchner:  Civil Society to whitewash their efforts and I 
  told them that this is not what I would want for open Wallet 
  projects because I'm sure there will be some amazing projects 
  coming out of open wallet but it will probably also because of 
  our inclusive approach that will probably also project coming out 
  of old wallet that you know don't live up to the highest ideals 
  of privacy.
Daniel Buchner:   For instance.
Daniel Buchner:  I want two things ideally from Civil Society 
  organizations one that they understand that the open Wallet 
  Foundation is neither good nor bad but really A Place for 
  conversations and hopefully they will agree that having such a 
  place is better than not having such a place we're also thinking 
  of how to work best with civil society organizations to.
Daniel Buchner:  Create a dialogue with those organizations just 
  like the one that we will have with government officials we have 
  two of those systems at the moment one is the associate 
  membership the other our fee is on agreements were discussing 
  with these organizations if one of those are interesting to them 
  or if we should explore maybe something closer to the 
  governmental advisory Council for civil society.
Daniel Buchner:   Nations I think all of.
Daniel Buchner:  Just have a few pros and cons but whatever 
  wherever we end up with the Hope definitely is that Civil Society 
  organizations are going to be an integral part of what we're 
  trying to do.
Harrison_Tang: Thanks Daniel any other questions for Daniel 
  Tracy.
Daniel Buchner:  And we also have R I hear Ryan is actually going 
  to manage the the tooling so if anyone has a question about the 
  actual tools that are being used how GitHub or Discord are being 
  used right is the right person to answer that.
Harrison_Tang: Anyone got tough questions for right.
Harrison_Tang: All right well if people have any questions please 
  feel free to just direct it to Daniel Tracy or Rye or actually 
  just you can reach out to me and I can forward to them as well 
  but I just want to thank you guys again Daniel Tracy right thanks 
  thanks for jumping in here and then provide this great update and 
  presentations I totally agree I think having a place for 
  conversations is better than having no place for conversation.
Harrison_Tang:  creation so.
Harrison_Tang: In having that you know interesting any kind of 
  wallet related initiatives and Technical Projects please feel 
  free to just go directly to open Wallet Foundation.
Harrison_Tang: Right thanks a lot and are there any other 
  questions or issues or agendas that people want to bring on feel 
  free to just um you or typing Cube plus into the queue.
<daniel> Thank you again for the invitation!
Harrison_Tang: All right that's it and thanks thanks Daniel 
  thanks Tracy this concludes this week's CG meeting thanks a lot.
Ry_Jones_(OWF): Thanks for having us bye bye.
