Thanks to Benjamin Collins and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-08-29-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-08-29-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-08-29

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Aug&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Benjamin Collins and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Benjamin Collins, Chris Abernethy, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Orie Steele, Mahmoud 
  Alkhraishi

Benjamin Collins is scribing.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Nis Jespersen :  Welcome to the weekly trace call. Everyone here 
  should have signed the contributor agreement. Today is vocab 
  week. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/856
Nis Jespersen :  I have a few, to be more precise all six are 
  from me. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  There is a mirror request on trace-interop to 
  move things to the repository they need to be in for the respec 
  document. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  Confirming no objections [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  Merging 856. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/857
Nis Jespersen :  We had a problem with British english which we 
  couldn't fix because of GS1 vocab. They made two contexts in US 
  english. What I've done here is use the US-english. What I 
  recommend is using the same terms. I think that is an 
  anti-pattern but not in the scope of what we're doing here. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/705#issuecomment-1693262467
Orie Steele:  Did you file an issue on their repository? Cross 
  link and then you've done your part. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/858
Nis Jespersen :  The next one is 858. I don't think we had a 
  problem here. The issue was the lat,lon had minus in there. I 
  looked at all of the geocoords and confirmed they are all valid. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  I think we're good and we should be able to 
  close the issue. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/859
Nis Jespersen :  This moves the code from the root of the bill of 
  lading into the carrier. It's an identifier for the organization. 
  Not the document. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/860
Nis Jespersen :  We took out mandatory expiration dates. This 
  brings in those required expiration dates on a couple of 
  credentials. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/861
Nis Jespersen :  This was an issue raised by Vlad. On some 
  descriptions we listed possible values that are defined on the 
  forms. So we should make those available as enums as opposed to 
  text. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Nis Jespersen :  Next moving over to trace-interop. [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/590
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/591
Nis Jespersen :  We included this as part of the process, but 
  shouldn't be part of the normtative language in the profile. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  591. This is the other side of the first PR we 
  merged in. It removes some of the definitions we had on 
  trace-interop and moves the good parts over to trace-vocab. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/592
Nis Jespersen :  The final one is from Isaac. Does anyone know 
  what these are for? [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Benjamin Collins:  I think this is adding headers to be able to 
  filter for logs. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> Why add it in pre-request JS script isntaed 
  of in headers area
Chris Abernethy:  I think there are other places to include 
  headers as opposed in pre-test or post-test. [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  What we observe today is a bunch of postman headers 
  that aren't useful. What we want to see is specific user agents 
  for the suite. If it accomplishes that we should merge and open a 
  link to fix. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy:  That sounds okay with me. [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  Sounds like we are in agreement. [scribe assist 
  by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  I just noticed the collection link stuff. That 
  should be removed. I don't want to see Transmute-specific 
  anything. I think this should be a follow up PR to remove the 
  account-specific information. Nis can you file a new ticket for 
  Isaac to follow up on that? [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/707
Nis Jespersen :  This issue could have been fix. [scribe assist 
  by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  It suggests that it has been fixed on the issue. 
  Can we just close it? [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/717
Nis Jespersen :  This is a bug on IATA records vocab. I'm 
  referencing this from a pull request. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  I think we should close this as well. Or let me 
  follow up and make sure it's been fixed on the IATA github and 
  then I can close out of band. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/562
Orie Steele:  This one is marked as "Pending Close" after Mark's 
  comment. We can just closed out as it timed out. [scribe assist 
  by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/719
Orie Steele:  There was something about the framing of the 
  document i liked. It's motivation is based in US policy changes. 
  I like parts of that, but other parts is not good for a global 
  position. It's basically the call for action to the ticket is to 
  improve the introductory text. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Orie Steele:  If we could it would be nice to introduce the 
  concept of supply chain transparency with respect to global 
  policy changes before we get lost in the technical-weeds. [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/733
Nis Jespersen :  We should remove a l [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  Code from the example [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  This is referencing a pull request which has a 
  LOCode where it shouldn't have. This is reminding us to clean up 
  after ourselves. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  That might have been resolved, is this still open? 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  Lets put a Pending Close on it and we can close it 
  next time we see it. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/278
Orie Steele:  Looking at the comment thread on this. It doesn't 
  seem like a priority. We could just close it. [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy:  This would be for Mike or Russel to answer. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  I'm going to use my friend card and make it Mike's 
  problem. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  What does that mean? [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Orie Steele:  Put Pending Close on it, and I'll ping Mike 
  directly. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/564
Orie Steele:  Multiple assignee's make it hard to blame someone 
  for it not being addressed. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  This has to do with how we identify products. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  I will take the role as the blame-guy [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  Get to the point where you can propose text changes 
  on the issue. If you get traction, you can make the PR. [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/274
Nis Jespersen :  This one has pending close, so we can close it. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/534
Nis Jespersen :  Also has a pending close. Closing this one too. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/734
Orie Steele:  What is remaining here? We search for the hash and 
  then remove it? [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
<chris_abernethy> stepping away momentarily
Nis Jespersen :  I think it's in a script that makes the 
  traceability terms. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  I think this is a find-replace PR. In the yml files 
  that have it as a URL. The other place is in the index html file. 
  As far as I know it still navigates correctly. So we do a find 
  replace and then look for the tooling to address this. [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/281
Nis Jespersen :  Any suggestions on what we do with this? [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  Is it ready for PR? Or is Russel assigned to move 
  it forwards towards Ready for PR? [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Orie Steele:  I might be aggressive with assigning Pending Close. 
  If it's not important enough that people have picked it up. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/290
Nis Jespersen :  Do we want to mark this pending close since it's 
  been inactive since April? [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  Possibly, trying to understand what concretely we 
  would change in our documents based on this. [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  We don't have container at set. I'm not sure how to 
  improve this. I think Pending Close is okay. It's too mixed of an 
  idea to have progress made on it. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
<chris_abernethy> back
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/277
Nis Jespersen :  Oldie but goodie. We marked it pending close in 
  April. I think we can close it. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/385
Orie Steele:  If you don't think it's worth doing. We can leave a 
  note saying that it's been over taken. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  Some of these are quite useful, so I think it's 
  worthwhile. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/637
Benjamin Collins:  I've been assigned and completely forgot. We 
  need some kind of tooling to make sure that example span the 
  schema. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  When we move over to v2 a lot of stuff is going to 
  break. Part of this has already been done with adding 
  credentialSchema to everything. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Orie Steele:  In terms of work remaining for this. I would expect 
  v2 test suites are checking if the credentialSchema is present 
  and the credentialSchema is passing. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/640
Benjamin Collins:  I think our tooling is already checking if the 
  schema is valid. In terms of spanning that just means make sure 
  required stuff is required. So I don't know if there are any 
  changes needed in our current tooling. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Orie Steele:  I would close it then. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/280
Orie Steele:  This one is also marked Pending Close. We can close 
  it. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/654
Nis Jespersen :  This seems like a dupe of a previous issue. So 
  we can close this. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/273
Nis Jespersen :  This seems to be a request for leveraging terms 
  in different ontologies? [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  If we use what we have today then potentially you 
  cant get the same precision as these other formats. If the other 
  formats aren't doing better than GS1 or Schema.org then we're not 
  getting any value from it. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  Good point, let's ask him. [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  I don't think Ben should be assigned [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Benjamin Collins: +1
Orie Steele:  I think you should stay on it, and if they fight 
  hard for it we can look at it, otherwise we can mark it as 
  pending close. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  Ted I love your comments: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/273#issuecomment-1697924841 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/406
Orie Steele:  There was a comment added after pending close. They 
  looked at other stuff. I think we can remove the pending close 
  and figure out a way to get Francis and his team to contribute 
  more. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  Maybe we can close this issue and maybe get him to 
  file issues around financial credentials. [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/739
Nis Jespersen :  This seems related to the EPCIS? [scribe assist 
  by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  Can I throw this at you Nis? [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Nis Jespersen :  Of course!!! (sarcasm?) [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> We're at 
  time... :-)
Orie Steele:  You are assigned now, it seems related to the event 
  ticket. You should cross-link it. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
<ben_-_transmute> scribe-
<orie> thank you!
