[2023-08-29T17:31:46.242Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-08-29T17:32:02.151Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-08-29T17:33:39.512Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-08-29T17:33:50.299Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-08-29T17:34:20.575Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-08-29T17:34:43.529Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe+
[2023-08-29T17:34:57.723Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-08-29T17:34:57.723Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-08-29T17:35:31.108Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2023-08-29T17:35:33.849Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Welcome to the weekly trace call. Everyone here should have signed the contributor agreement. Today is vocab week.
[2023-08-29T17:35:50.878Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/856
[2023-08-29T17:35:52.151Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I have a few, to be more precise all six are from me.
[2023-08-29T17:36:11.870Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2023-08-29T17:36:29.426Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: There is a mirror request on trace-interop to move things to the repository they need to be in for the respec document.
[2023-08-29T17:36:53.239Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Confirming no objections
[2023-08-29T17:37:04.213Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Merging 856.
[2023-08-29T17:37:06.726Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/857
[2023-08-29T17:38:22.891Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We had a problem with British english which we couldn't fix because of GS1 vocab. They made two contexts in US english. What I've done here is use the US-english. What I recommend is using the same terms. I think that is an anti-pattern but not in the scope of what we're doing here.
[2023-08-29T17:38:30.575Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/705#issuecomment-1693262467
[2023-08-29T17:38:45.841Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Did you file an issue on their repository? Cross link and then you've done your part.
[2023-08-29T17:39:11.583Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/858
[2023-08-29T17:39:47.901Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: The next one is 858. I don't think we had a problem here. The issue was the lat,lon had minus in there. I looked at all of the geocoords and confirmed they are all valid.
[2023-08-29T17:39:58.581Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I think we're good and we should be able to close the issue.
[2023-08-29T17:40:04.787Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/859
[2023-08-29T17:40:38.007Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This moves the code from the root of the bill of lading into the carrier. It's an identifier for the organization. Not the document.
[2023-08-29T17:40:47.949Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/860
[2023-08-29T17:41:25.978Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We took out mandatory expiration dates. This brings in those required expiration dates on a couple of credentials.
[2023-08-29T17:41:53.364Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/861
[2023-08-29T17:42:37.086Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This was an issue raised by Vlad. On some descriptions we listed possible values that are defined on the forms. So we should make those available as enums as opposed to text.
[2023-08-29T17:42:40.323Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2023-08-29T17:42:47.343Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Next moving over to trace-interop.
[2023-08-29T17:42:49.502Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/590
[2023-08-29T17:43:38.200Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/591
[2023-08-29T17:43:40.238Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We included this as part of the process, but shouldn't be part of the normtative language in the profile.
[2023-08-29T17:44:15.469Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: 591. This is the other side of the first PR we merged in. It removes some of the definitions we had on trace-interop and moves the good parts over to trace-vocab.
[2023-08-29T17:44:26.069Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/592
[2023-08-29T17:45:12.100Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: The final one is from Isaac. Does anyone know what these are for?
[2023-08-29T17:45:29.539Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I think this is adding headers to be able to filter for logs.
[2023-08-29T17:46:09.715Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Why add it in pre-request JS script isntaed of in headers area
[2023-08-29T17:46:25.002Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I think there are other places to include headers as opposed in pre-test or post-test.
[2023-08-29T17:47:16.737Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: What we observe today is a bunch of postman headers that aren't useful. What we want to see is specific user agents for the suite. If it accomplishes that we should merge and open a link to fix.
[2023-08-29T17:47:29.017Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: That sounds okay with me.
[2023-08-29T17:47:54.505Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Sounds like we are in agreement.
[2023-08-29T17:48:42.045Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I just noticed the collection link stuff. That should be removed. I don't want to see Transmute-specific anything. I think this should be a follow up PR to remove the account-specific information. Nis can you file a new ticket for Isaac to follow up on that?
[2023-08-29T17:49:08.767Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-08-29T17:49:17.267Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/707
[2023-08-29T17:49:43.012Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This issue could have been fix.
[2023-08-29T17:50:04.845Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: It suggests that it has been fixed on the issue. Can we just close it?
[2023-08-29T17:50:17.048Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/717
[2023-08-29T17:50:54.240Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is a bug on IATA records vocab. I'm referencing this from a pull request.
[2023-08-29T17:51:27.526Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I think we should close this as well. Or let me follow up and make sure it's been fixed on the IATA github and then I can close out of band.
[2023-08-29T17:51:56.615Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/562
[2023-08-29T17:52:50.409Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: This one is marked as "Pending Close" after Mark's comment. We can just closed out as it timed out.
[2023-08-29T17:52:57.302Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/719
[2023-08-29T17:54:26.192Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: There was something about the framing of the document i liked. It's motivation is based in US policy changes. I like parts of that, but other parts is not good for a global position. It's basically the call for action to the ticket is to improve the introductory text.
[2023-08-29T17:55:33.858Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: If we could it would be nice to introduce the concept of supply chain transparency with respect to global policy changes before we get lost in the technical-weeds.
[2023-08-29T17:56:23.209Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/733
[2023-08-29T17:56:42.439Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We should remove a l
[2023-08-29T17:56:52.656Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: code from the example
[2023-08-29T17:57:18.673Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is referencing a pull request which has a LOCode where it shouldn't have. This is reminding us to clean up after ourselves.
[2023-08-29T17:57:29.362Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: That might have been resolved, is this still open?
[2023-08-29T17:57:41.776Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Lets put a Pending Close on it and we can close it next time we see it.
[2023-08-29T17:57:59.883Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/278
[2023-08-29T17:58:59.009Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Looking at the comment thread on this. It doesn't seem like a priority. We could just close it.
[2023-08-29T17:59:11.050Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This would be for Mike or Russel to answer.
[2023-08-29T17:59:24.542Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I'm going to use my friend card and make it Mike's problem.
[2023-08-29T17:59:31.232Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: What does that mean?
[2023-08-29T17:59:44.712Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Put Pending Close on it, and I'll ping Mike directly.
[2023-08-29T17:59:49.927Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/564
[2023-08-29T18:00:39.512Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Multiple assignee's make it hard to blame someone for it not being addressed.
[2023-08-29T18:00:51.152Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This has to do with how we identify products.
[2023-08-29T18:01:14.806Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I will take the role as the blame-guy
[2023-08-29T18:01:37.083Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Get to the point where you can propose text changes on the issue. If you get traction, you can make the PR.
[2023-08-29T18:01:46.855Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/274
[2023-08-29T18:02:06.824Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This one has pending close, so we can close it.
[2023-08-29T18:02:14.686Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/534
[2023-08-29T18:02:45.686Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Also has a pending close. Closing this one too.
[2023-08-29T18:02:48.752Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/734
[2023-08-29T18:03:21.101Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: What is remaining here? We search for the hash and then remove it?
[2023-08-29T18:03:36.874Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	stepping away momentarily
[2023-08-29T18:03:37.657Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I think it's in a script that makes the traceability terms.
[2023-08-29T18:04:29.345Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think this is a find-replace PR. In the yml files that have it as a URL. The other place is in the index html file. As far as I know it still navigates correctly. So we do a find replace and then look for the tooling to address this.
[2023-08-29T18:04:51.603Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/281
[2023-08-29T18:05:35.382Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Any suggestions on what we do with this?
[2023-08-29T18:05:54.550Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Is it ready for PR? Or is Russel assigned to move it forwards towards Ready for PR?
[2023-08-29T18:06:58.095Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I might be aggressive with assigning Pending Close. If it's not important enough that people have picked it up.
[2023-08-29T18:07:45.817Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/290
[2023-08-29T18:08:42.312Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Do we want to mark this pending close since it's been inactive since April?
[2023-08-29T18:08:59.625Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Possibly, trying to understand what concretely we would change in our documents based on this.
[2023-08-29T18:09:38.766Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: We don't have container at set. I'm not sure how to improve this. I think Pending Close is okay. It's too mixed of an idea to have progress made on it.
[2023-08-29T18:09:52.675Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	back
[2023-08-29T18:10:47.447Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/277
[2023-08-29T18:11:15.153Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-08-29T18:11:15.236Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Oldie but goodie. We marked it pending close in April. I think we can close it.
[2023-08-29T18:11:20.289Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/385
[2023-08-29T18:12:16.592Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: If you don't think it's worth doing. We can leave a note saying that it's been over taken.
[2023-08-29T18:12:29.531Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Some of these are quite useful, so I think it's worthwhile.
[2023-08-29T18:12:30.420Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/637
[2023-08-29T18:13:36.259Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I've been assigned and completely forgot. We need some kind of tooling to make sure that example span the schema.
[2023-08-29T18:14:22.284Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: When we move over to v2 a lot of stuff is going to break. Part of this has already been done with adding credentialSchema to everything.
[2023-08-29T18:14:59.883Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: In terms of work remaining for this. I would expect v2 test suites are checking if the credentialSchema is present and the credentialSchema is passing.
[2023-08-29T18:15:56.493Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/640
[2023-08-29T18:16:12.756Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I think our tooling is already checking if the schema is valid. In terms of spanning that just means make sure required stuff is required. So I don't know if there are any changes needed in our current tooling.
[2023-08-29T18:16:19.811Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I would close it then.
[2023-08-29T18:16:34.547Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/280
[2023-08-29T18:16:59.553Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: This one is also marked Pending Close. We can close it.
[2023-08-29T18:17:04.559Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/654
[2023-08-29T18:17:27.986Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This seems like a dupe of a previous issue. So we can close this.
[2023-08-29T18:17:31.966Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/273
[2023-08-29T18:18:16.393Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This seems to be a request for leveraging terms in different ontologies?
[2023-08-29T18:19:14.202Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: If we use what we have today then potentially you cant get the same precision as these other formats. If the other formats aren't doing better than GS1 or Schema.org then we're not getting any value from it.
[2023-08-29T18:19:26.517Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Good point, let's ask him.
[2023-08-29T18:20:14.548Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I don't think Ben should be assigned
[2023-08-29T18:20:15.523Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	+1
[2023-08-29T18:20:47.421Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think you should stay on it, and if they fight hard for it we can look at it, otherwise we can mark it as pending close.
[2023-08-29T18:21:56.207Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Ted I love your comments: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/273#issuecomment-1697924841
[2023-08-29T18:22:18.452Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/406
[2023-08-29T18:23:36.926Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: There was a comment added after pending close. They looked at other stuff. I think we can remove the pending close and figure out a way to get Francis and his team to contribute more.
[2023-08-29T18:23:55.674Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Maybe we can close this issue and maybe get him to file issues around financial credentials.
[2023-08-29T18:25:12.681Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/739
[2023-08-29T18:25:45.241Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This seems related to the EPCIS?
[2023-08-29T18:25:55.190Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Can I throw this at you Nis?
[2023-08-29T18:26:04.421Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Of course!!! (sarcasm?)
[2023-08-29T18:26:24.197Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	We're at time... :-)
[2023-08-29T18:26:30.226Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: You are assigned now, it seems related to the event ticket. You should cross-link it.
[2023-08-29T18:26:54.518Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe-
[2023-08-29T18:27:10.029Z]	<Orie>	thank you!
