[2023-08-01T15:56:31.312Z]	<Joel>	present+
[2023-08-01T15:56:31.315Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2023-08-01T15:56:49.985Z]	<Joel>	present+
[2023-08-01T15:57:50.226Z]	<Alan_Karp>	present+
[2023-08-01T15:58:41.329Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-08-01T15:59:04.842Z]	<Wendy_Seltzer>	present+
[2023-08-01T15:59:51.752Z]	<Hiroyuki_Sano,_Japan>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:00:51.113Z]	<Gregory_Natran>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:01:32.966Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:01:35.694Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:01:42.782Z]	<Vanessa>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:01:55.004Z]	<Phil-T3>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:02:18.119Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:02:45.528Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-08-01T16:02:45.528Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2023-08-01T16:02:50.263Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:02:55.244Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:02:58.312Z]	<John_Henderson>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:03:29.983Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: So I'm really excited to welcome Joel to talk with us today he Harrison sent out a link to his article and I just had a chance to read it and was telling him as we were coming on and getting started that it was very helpful and very accessible so I hope you all have had a chance to look at it but if you have not and he is going to be kind of talking through it for hope you know.
[2023-08-01T16:03:30.344Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  bit of.
[2023-08-01T16:03:50.483Z]	<Kaliya_IdentityWoman>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:03:50.558Z]	<Vanessa>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:04:02.939Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: The conversation today and then hopefully we can actually have a discussion around it and I know Harrison sent out a number of questions that I think will be really good for us to start the conversation I think one of the things that is happening for me and is that I'm getting a more and more robust understanding of dids by every time we have one of these conversations and so I'm looking forward to today I think what I learned from the article helped.
[2023-08-01T16:04:03.372Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  a sort of build that.
[2023-08-01T16:04:08.871Z]	<Bob_Wyman>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:04:10.783Z]	<Will>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:04:15.308Z]	<Clare_Nelson>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:04:16.258Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:04:35.915Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: And so I'm hoping that I can come away with even just a clearer sort of two-sentence description for those folks who I encounter on a really regular basis who who don't know what it did is so anyway but let's jump into just kind of our quick little housekeeping staff and then we'll let Joel take over as you all know and are all committed to is that we follow a code of ethics.
[2023-08-01T16:04:36.397Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  X and professional conduct.
[2023-08-01T16:04:43.968Z]	<Leo>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:05:09.724Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: On that there is a link in the agenda to it we welcome anyone to participate in these calls and encourage that participation however if you're really wanting to be involved in the nitty-gritty work that we're doing then I would invite you to sign the IPR agreement and the link to that can be found on the website on our should be able to be found on our website to but it also can be found in the agenda and it will require that you have a.
[2023-08-01T16:05:10.241Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  you 3C account but just to know.
[2023-08-01T16:05:35.263Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:05:41.917Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Three and participation in the community group is also free we do keep a recording of Anna minutes of this meeting and we use jitsi to do that if you want to participate in the call I'm looking through and I see most of you are familiar faces so you know to kill yourself by just typing q+ in the in the chat and that will put you on the Queue and I will be the.
[2023-08-01T16:05:42.292Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  the one today who is.
[2023-08-01T16:06:00.906Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:06:07.306Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2023-08-01T16:06:08.081Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: To manage that Q so now comes one of my favorite parts of the day which is introductions and reintroductions so if you are new to this group or if you haven't come off mute in a while and you'd like to just remind us who you are now is your opportunity to do so so please go ahead and hit that Q Plus button.
[2023-08-01T16:06:14.448Z]	<Alan_Karp>	q+
[2023-08-01T16:06:18.432Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Alan I noticed you came off you yeah.
[2023-08-01T16:06:35.896Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: Yeah I don't usually attend this meetings but I attend a lot of w3c meetings where they're talking about object capabilities just so that people don't make them trying to keep people from making the Newbie mistakes that I made when I was a capability newbie.
[2023-08-01T16:06:36.788Z]	<Lucy_Yang>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:06:41.063Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Awesome well welcome glad you're here.
[2023-08-01T16:06:47.619Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Anyone else want to come off mute and say hello.
[2023-08-01T16:06:51.947Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2023-08-01T16:06:55.906Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	ack alan
[2023-08-01T16:07:01.120Z]	<BrentZ>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:07:05.548Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Okay how about introduction about announcements and reminders.
[2023-08-01T16:07:14.092Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Anyone want to add themselves Q4 that Clea yes please.
[2023-08-01T16:07:39.092Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_IdentityWoman: Hi just a reminder that the internet identity Workshop it's coming up October 10 through 12 in Mountain View California and early bird registration I think ends at the end of this week so yeah we hope to see you there.
[2023-08-01T16:07:42.353Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: I will be there I'm really excited about it October and Mountain View sounds like a fabulous.
[2023-08-01T16:07:47.236Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: I definitely hope to see lots of folks on this on this list.
[2023-08-01T16:07:49.520Z]	<Kaliya_IdentityWoman>	http://www.internetidentityworkshop.com
[2023-08-01T16:07:50.217Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Other announcements and reminders.
[2023-08-01T16:07:51.400Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:08:04.906Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Dimitri could I could I put you on the spot to give kind of a recap of the data Integrity work that you've been working on.
[2023-08-01T16:08:14.235Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:08:14.682Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: I sure I think mine might be a better candidate to do that but.
[2023-08-01T16:08:25.445Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:08:35.418Z]	<Jeff_O_-_HumanOS>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:08:39.962Z]	<CEL>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:08:42.252Z]	<Sue>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:08:45.485Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: So the verifiable credentials working group the 2.0 is also developing a data Integrity specification as part of its deliverables and it is a general-purpose way to sign essentially Json objects and there's a number there's a general mechanism and a number of specific Signature suites using key types that we're all familiar with so.
[2023-08-01T16:08:49.719Z]	<Bruno_Vavala_(Intel)>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:09:04.567Z]	<Phil_T3>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:09:16.746Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Elliptic Edwards curve RSA the nist curves and so on the data Integrity works either if you're signing linked data objects using json-ld or it also works using non linked data Json objects using simple Json con causation so and it's in fact that.
[2023-08-01T16:09:17.045Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin:  a part is being.
[2023-08-01T16:09:24.666Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Adopted by the FED of Earth so essentially social media such as Mastodon and others.
[2023-08-01T16:09:38.293Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: So the the specs are both the main spec and the sweet specs are on track to be delivered with the rest of working groups backs.
[2023-08-01T16:09:38.910Z]	<Andres_Uribe>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:09:42.088Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great thank you.
[2023-08-01T16:10:07.821Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:10:17.004Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah just add to what Dimitri was saying so the good news I think with the data Integrity sweets is as of last week we only have three issues on the main spec and three issues on the Eds a spec that we need to resolve before we think the specifications are ready to go into the candidate recommendation phase that's basically where you freeze the specifications completely.
[2023-08-01T16:10:17.425Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  tell the implementers that they're.
[2023-08-01T16:10:48.068Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Haitian in to integrate them with the test Suite so the good news there is that I think we're a little ahead of schedule they're clearly you know we can't say that we're done yet we will learn things as people more broadly implement it but the other good news with those data Integrity test Suites which were all incubated in the ccg is that we have multiple independent.
[2023-08-01T16:10:48.512Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  ins for them.
[2023-08-01T16:11:16.443Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: 34 ecdsa 34 EDSA 74 the ones we used for the plugfest last year and that is without actually announcing that to have people integrate with it so on a good Glide path for those data Integrity items that's it.
[2023-08-01T16:11:23.474Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:11:39.744Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great thank you I've noticed that we've had a whole sort of influx of folks come in and just the last little bit and so I want to read sort of come back to introductions and reintroductions and see if there is anyone who is joining us today that is new or just wants to come off mute and kind of say hello so I kind of revisit that that topic.
[2023-08-01T16:11:41.396Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	queue?
[2023-08-01T16:11:53.386Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Right now I'll say again to everyone that's here now if you have announcements and reminders come put yourself on the queue.
[2023-08-01T16:12:20.689Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Okay well then that concludes the housekeeping portion of a call today and so I'm going to go ahead and turn it over to Joel who is going to talk a little bit with talk about kids with us Joel Joel and I practice screen sharing so it should be should work well.
[2023-08-01T16:12:25.269Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Everyone happy to be here.
[2023-08-01T16:12:28.792Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Let's see if I can get the slides going.
[2023-08-01T16:12:39.750Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Okay how about that.
[2023-08-01T16:12:42.555Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Yep we see.
[2023-08-01T16:13:01.015Z]	<John_Henderson>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:13:01.816Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:13:10.617Z]	<Clare_Nelson_(DIF)>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:13:10.911Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Hey so these are slides that actually put together somewhat over a month ago in the article published also over a month ago so I want to just excuse in advance that this is not Super Fresh in my memory but I think we can still have a good discussion and I would also say if that's okay like feel free to interrupt if there's anything unclear as I'm.
[2023-08-01T16:13:11.304Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  going through this.
[2023-08-01T16:13:14.456Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: I know we'll have time for questions at the end as well.
[2023-08-01T16:13:47.229Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Okay so what are we going to be talking about today is something that I've called generative the ID maximalism and this is something that kind of arose past I've been building decentralised protocols that use the IDS as like the account mechanism and struggling with kind of how to support multiple data.
[2023-08-01T16:13:47.598Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  D methods.
[2023-08-01T16:13:47.999Z]	<David_Lehn>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:13:51.984Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Retaining the centralization of power cord protocol.
[2023-08-01T16:13:52.944Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:14:22.959Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: So before I jump in is like very briefly about myself I've been working in the web T / Block Chain space since 2015 been working with dids since 2016 I was part of the viewport team which was one of the early projects doing the ad stuff but back then I'm a co-founder of a company called tape of slabs and our main focus is building a decentralized Data Network called surrounded.
[2023-08-01T16:14:32.585Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Leverages Dae says like the wit main account model for publishing data into the network.
[2023-08-01T16:15:04.848Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: All right so for the agenda today I'm going to start talking about like why the IDS can't interoperate and to dive a little bit deeper into that like why do we need me to build the in the 80s in the first place then we'll talk about what generative the 80s are and how they can be used together with object capabilities and then we'll just have time for General discussion.
[2023-08-01T16:15:05.256Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  the end.
[2023-08-01T16:15:13.071Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: So for people who actually read my article before Huns this is kind of just like in reiteration of that.
[2023-08-01T16:15:38.115Z]	<Bruno_Vavala_(Intel)>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:15:45.024Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: You all right so let's dive in why can't the IDS up interoperate well I think the main reason for this is that we have this specification that allows anyone to kind of implement the ideas with whatever kind of back end that they feel appropriate and this has led to as many of you know I think the numbers probably weight larger now but over like.
[2023-08-01T16:16:08.741Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: At this point dating methods in the registry it's great that we get to experiment a lot but if you want to build an application you like we have to pick one or a few methods that you support and so why can't we support all of them why is that so hard.
[2023-08-01T16:16:28.367Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Different DD methods requires different verifiable data Registries in most cases where you actually want to have a decentralized data registry you need to rely on some sort of watching.
[2023-08-01T16:16:28.700Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  so this could be.
[2023-08-01T16:17:01.664Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Bitcoin could be a terrier mix could be some other network and in the case where you're lying on one blockchains a Bitcoin or ethereum you can run this on commodity hardware and you can potentially even support multiple different Theory methods there are supported by that individual blockchain but if you want to support multiple different EAD methods that rely on multiple different blockchains you're in trouble you.
[2023-08-01T16:17:02.204Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  basically won't be able to run.
[2023-08-01T16:17:16.514Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Resolve these the IDS on commodity Hardware you need to kind of Outsource that work to a server somewhere and then we're kind of losing some of the properties of.
[2023-08-01T16:17:22.454Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: So if we actually want we want them to be decentralized we want them to be trust minimized.
[2023-08-01T16:17:40.129Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: And in many cases the DD methods on like Bitcoin or ethereum actually requires you to run a full node it's not enough to run I like clients in some cases like like a might be enough but definitely not in all cases.
[2023-08-01T16:18:16.614Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Especially if you build trying to do like a fully decentralized application where you want the user to have kind of around the pole kind of decentralized application this is this this aspect of like supporting multiple dates across watches is simply not going to work and there are some great efforts to have some sort of universal resolver I think there's like a repo that just like tries to integrate a bunch of tid.
[2023-08-01T16:18:17.076Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  words into one single repo with a bunch of docker.
[2023-08-01T16:18:24.002Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: That's great but the problem is you can only see simply run this on.
[2023-08-01T16:18:34.075Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Right big servers and tend to run an application that requires users to run this locally the simply too much.
[2023-08-01T16:19:05.896Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: And so the question that comes next is like okay well so what does actually using these boxing's give us and what this block chains are verifiable data Registries allowed to do is how mutability of early 80s that also has to have a history of like which keys were authorized to act on behalf of this D ID at what point in time and that's kind of.
[2023-08-01T16:19:06.355Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  why we want you to bility of.
[2023-08-01T16:19:11.748Z]	<Eric_Sembrat>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:19:39.083Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Like the history historical changes of the dod enables mutability and so I would say there are two main things - is key rotation the other one is something that Daddy's also allow us to have a place to store some metadata it's usually like a pointer to some service I guess in general is called services on the 80s but to pointing to some server or to some other kind of resource.
[2023-08-01T16:19:39.598Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  and so one thing that.
[2023-08-01T16:20:09.894Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Sort of thinking about this is like okay Dee Dee's actually do two very different things one is supporting key rotations and one is having this like registry of metadata so what I'm proposing talking about here is mainly just like thinking about the key rotation aspects of the IDS personally am not convinced that also having a metadata registry inside of a deity it's like we're kind of.
[2023-08-01T16:20:10.439Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  trying to solve too kind of very different problems with.
[2023-08-01T16:20:30.730Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Privilege but I want to dive too much into that right now okay so there's this great article written by I think Wayne from Spruce ID and there he talked about actually can think of different the ID methods as having different traits.
[2023-08-01T16:20:48.888Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: So all of this these deities in this example like the key to th red you know since on supports the SEC P 256 K 1 key type the key in the dkh are purely generative.
[2023-08-01T16:20:53.108Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: The other ones are have the ability to voltages.
[2023-08-01T16:21:25.255Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Is a generative Theory method it's basically the idea method that doesn't support any type of key rotation instead you can basically generate the DAT document from only knowing the daad URI itself we can essentially in some shape or form the URI includes the public key so for the key you actually have encoded the entire public key for did pkh you have encoded.
[2023-08-01T16:21:25.848Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  the hash of the public key.
[2023-08-01T16:21:58.850Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: The nice property about generative the 80s is that we don't actually rely on any Ledger we can use them anywhere without needing to synchronize a blockchain or look up DNS name like in the web or contact some centralized server we can just use them locally and so that's that's very nice.
[2023-08-01T16:22:06.712Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: But we actually want key rotation right that we want the ability to revoke peace and to rotate keys.
[2023-08-01T16:22:38.223Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: And this is where I think the combination of generative Theory Paradigm with object capabilities becomes a really powerful way of having Primitives that enable each other so objective abilities can be used to delegate control over the ID and sometimes and I'm not this is not like a talk about or like a discussion of.
[2023-08-01T16:22:38.497Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  what object capabilities are in the.
[2023-08-01T16:23:10.746Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: He's going to talk about some of the things they've been seeing in the space there are some emerging standards in kind of web 3ish community and recap is object capability based on sign in with etherium so basically makes any other involved into a wallet that also can be a DAT and delegate control to session keys or other dadss essentially could be.
[2023-08-01T16:23:11.048Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  be a key in your browser or.
[2023-08-01T16:23:16.625Z]	<Paul_Fuxjaeger>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:23:27.358Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Since the eggy you can is an emerging standard in the ipfs community and is being used by a number of different projects and this is based on jwt's.
[2023-08-01T16:23:54.584Z]	<Paul_Fuxjaeger>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:23:59.638Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: We've actually been working closely with the Spurs team and the fishing team who each are responsible for Recaps and Yukon to align the format for the recap and you can capabilities and so we can actually represent them in a very similar way and have interoperability between these two then I wanted to mention also Chambers and I think this is.
[2023-08-01T16:23:59.968Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  is kind of critical.
[2023-08-01T16:24:05.578Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: To understand like how we can actually have something like.
[2023-08-01T16:24:20.745Z]	<Paul_Fuxjaeger>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:24:36.541Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: The same properties in would have with verifiable data registry with on the genitive deities and object capabilities so chain proofs is basically an object capability that encodes a state proof from approaching so for example in ethereum every block there's the there's a hatch that's basically this is the route has of the state of the entire Block Chain and given that hash I can actually generate a miracle.
[2023-08-01T16:24:36.902Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  proof that.
[2023-08-01T16:24:58.561Z]	<Paul_Fuxjaeger>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:25:09.353Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Says the owner for example the owner of this nft is account 0x ABC and I can verify this proof and verify that this blog header is included in the blockchain for this Jam proof and I can know that okay this account was actually owner of this entity at this point in time and this is really powerful because then I can verify any state about the blockchain using only a like.
[2023-08-01T16:25:34.363Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Essentially this enables us to have the ID methods that are based on various types of engine State without having to run a full node in the blockchain and actually running one or multiple light claims locally on come on commodity Hardware is way easier than running call nodes which should be self-evident.
[2023-08-01T16:25:34.863Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  see you soon.
[2023-08-01T16:25:51.549Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Sample of how we could use object capabilities to delegate control over the media let's see here we have the ID example a and we delegate the basically the star basically full access to the DA DB.
[2023-08-01T16:26:22.984Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: So now this is essentially the ADB can do anything that Didier could do and this example the idea here think of this is that a generative the ID that doesn't allow you to do any sort of key rotation think of you could think of this for example at least I did key now did be basically as makes a right to some some resource and we call this data one.
[2023-08-01T16:26:40.998Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Later point in time we issue a provocation of the do essentially the of the capability that we gave to vdd and this could be like either you can or recap it doesn't really matter.
[2023-08-01T16:27:13.271Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: The access that DDP had okay also and here down at the bottom we have the time it's over we can see that Theta one was written in some kind of time and data be or excite the revocation now did be happened later now we run into a problem here where because how do I know here if we don't have a strict sense of time.
[2023-08-01T16:27:13.649Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  but maybe.
[2023-08-01T16:27:20.861Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: ATB that another right of data time too.
[2023-08-01T16:27:51.684Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: And from an external Observer I might not have seen this this revocation yet so we need some sense of time here and if there's just no sense of time we only have object abilities and and its data rights that happen at some opaque and point in time we can really know like when this was revoked or not and what this actually means is we need.
[2023-08-01T16:27:52.178Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  need a verifiable data.
[2023-08-01T16:28:14.184Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Should we need to be able to time-stamped what point in time does the district ation happen the this revocation happened before data one was written or did it happen after and there to get that information we need to have some way of time stamping and this time stamping.
[2023-08-01T16:28:14.734Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  yeah it needs to.
[2023-08-01T16:28:48.472Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: To see what it could be like learned we could simply just like register some some Merkle tree or some some hash on chain that can be proven with only like a client of similar to change groups that I mentioned before but okay like now we need a verifiable data literacy a reason back to where we started and we need to select it's essentially what I'm watching or have to have some centralized system that runs all the blockchain.
[2023-08-01T16:28:48.950Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  it's but I think it's slightly more advanced.
[2023-08-01T16:29:20.740Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: So in the case where we have a musical the ID we essentially have to pick one if we want to have it fully decentralized and take Bitcoin or think it's here or some other blockchain and then that's it while in the case we use table capabilities and generative dod's the generative theories are kind of universally compatible with as need some code to verify those locally.
[2023-08-01T16:29:21.225Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  then on top of that we're using object capable.
[2023-08-01T16:29:54.089Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Some cases these are fully we can use them wherever as well as some cases that require some sort of like client like for example if we use these same proofs if it's a chain proof of the ethereum blockchain we of course need like client of lithium function we can sort of like mix and match the object capabilities could potentially support across multiple chains finally the revocation registry which is what I'm calling.
[2023-08-01T16:29:54.450Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  in the verifiable data registry with time-stamped Isa.
[2023-08-01T16:29:57.803Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Is the point in time to happen.
[2023-08-01T16:30:29.997Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Here we actually need to pick one essentially saying or verifiable data registry which we use for our application but as you can see this gives us a lot more flexibility because we can have way more interoperability on these lower level layers and have make this constraint in our revocation registry right so you might wonder at this point like okay well.
[2023-08-01T16:30:30.387Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  what if I want to.
[2023-08-01T16:30:55.230Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: A mutable the ID and object capabilities in that case you're kind of picking the worst of Both Worlds in my opinion because you both need to choose a docking system for immutable d a d and then choose one for the revocation of the sea and they kind of like.
[2023-08-01T16:31:04.030Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Unless you want to like have this drive towards centralization because you can run it on commodity Hardware.
[2023-08-01T16:31:26.638Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Okay so let's talk about examples of generative vad methods like what can we actually do which what type of things could is reasonable here that's who I mentioned already sticky most of you are probably familiar with this purely generative it can work with your cancer recap.
[2023-08-01T16:31:59.399Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: And yeah like very flexible did th also purely generative works with Recaps / of signing with a theorem or there's similar things designer with the theorems for other blushing world's benefit of did pth is there's already a wide distribution of the cryptocurrency waltz out there that people are using as it enables us to have wide distribution then there are other deities.
[2023-08-01T16:31:59.701Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  methods that are currently not.
[2023-08-01T16:32:19.106Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Noted or doesn't exist yet but did entity not currently generative but it could be changed to make to be made generator we could simply just like based on the identifier generate a static documents and then we could use this.
[2023-08-01T16:32:35.825Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Improve to essentially as an object capability have a state proof of for example the ethereum blockchain that had this particular address AKA did pkh is the owner of this entity and.
[2023-08-01T16:33:08.223Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Potentially them delegated further to to other deities but we can have like a full proof of like okay here is at this point in time this was actually the owner of this in a p and so you need a like going to verify the object capability but the and the dod itself is purely generated very similar we could imagine a lady method called good ebm that on this.
[2023-08-01T16:33:08.643Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  essentially steal like any.
[2023-08-01T16:33:15.067Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: To any contract on a theorem can be used as a dat.
[2023-08-01T16:33:15.199Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  this is.
[2023-08-01T16:33:19.020Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Goodbye a shame proof methodology.
[2023-08-01T16:33:51.633Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Then look at let's look at some kind of existing deities that are not currently generative but I think we could imagine them reimagine them as generative vad methods for example the a DNS right now it's looks up DNS record when you resolve it I think and they're probably people who can correct me on this on this call but in theory we could I think make an object.
[2023-08-01T16:33:52.063Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  visibility that includes a DNS proof.
[2023-08-01T16:34:22.939Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: That you can verify your verifying the signature and kind of the delegation chain rather than like always resolving the deity so the DNS did document basis contains like hey this is the Guinness record as long as you have another vad that can provide a delegation proof through some DNS record we can have this we can see that this delegation chain is.
[2023-08-01T16:34:23.715Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  is volatile.
[2023-08-01T16:34:50.404Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Similarly with the male 2 we could potentially do something as well using d'yquem proof to also do that's kind of Delegation and I know there's a lot of nuances here that one's more this Captain but this is more kind of as an illustrative example of how we can move more in this direction.
[2023-08-01T16:34:50.787Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  all right.
[2023-08-01T16:35:02.248Z]	<Alan_Karp>	q+
[2023-08-01T16:35:08.485Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Does all the kind of content that I had prepared and article I think it went a little bit more in detail that I hope this helped to kind of pause here and then if there are any questions.
[2023-08-01T16:35:33.451Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great thanks Joel thanks a lot and before I start the Q is already and blowing up before I start calling on a cue I want to just make sure that I got my understanding is right and have you kind of help walking through my taste so I have a wallet and I use it to store primarily open Badges and CLR.
[2023-08-01T16:35:33.850Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  words that are from education.
[2023-08-01T16:36:02.855Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Grabs professional licenses and we use did web so when I'm connecting with somebody who's going to issue me one of those credentials I'm sending them my my did web and they're authenticating it back at back and forth but if I wanted to connect to somebody who used a different kid method they would be like no sorry we can't we can't communicate.
[2023-08-01T16:36:03.236Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  so your your way would be.
[2023-08-01T16:36:11.850Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	Jitsi was intermittently telling me "Video for Joel has been turned off to conserve bandwidth". Is it just me (suggesting that I may need to talk to my ISP), or are others getting this as well (suggesting that Joel may want to talk to his ISP)? Definitely woud like a link to the slidedeck, in either case!
[2023-08-01T16:36:18.292Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Fluid to allow for that did method to allow like a connection between those that methods so that I could use my usual did method to.
[2023-08-01T16:36:23.737Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Act is that right and how is it wrong.
[2023-08-01T16:36:26.783Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	I was getting that too, TallTed
[2023-08-01T16:36:31.909Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	First time I've seen it.
[2023-08-01T16:36:54.848Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: So I think actually you could maybe have some kind of Oracle system that acts as like an interoperability layer for these types of so of more centralized dat methods like did web did web reliable DNS naming system and it also relies on someone running a server somewhere but if you can have like some Oracle system that the tests you like hey yeah.
[2023-08-01T16:36:55.270Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  yeah this was this.
[2023-08-01T16:37:22.483Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Did read result to this the any document at this point in time then you can sort of trust this Oracle Network and use that as an object of ability So in theory yeah I guess you could have that sort of interoperability thing this is not really what I was like trying to convey here the primary thing I'm trying to communicate here is.
[2023-08-01T16:37:56.638Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: We want to make a system that is fully decentralized and doesn't rely on kind of centralized servers to resolve the ad methods what are what is the kind of trade off space and like how can we make different dat methods as interoperable as possible so it's kind of like the daad space is pretty large so it's like a lot of different things there are some methods that are like highly centralized are some methods are like highly decentralized and I know.
[2023-08-01T16:37:57.074Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  others like someone has been working on the rubric and what not.
[2023-08-01T16:38:17.857Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: But kind of what I'm trying to do is like this space of the centralized deity methods like how can we make them more interoperable and make them something that we actually drive more usage of rather than use like using these more centralized Eid methods as it's like a cop-out almost.
[2023-08-01T16:38:30.288Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Still maybe a maybe a better example would be someone has one of these very decentralized methods and they want to communicate with a more centralized method they need a way to do that.
[2023-08-01T16:38:53.670Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Yeah it's more like if you want to build an application and you want your users to not rely on kind of centralized systems but you still want to support as much stuff as possible how right what are the right constraints for you to consider when you're building your application.
[2023-08-01T16:38:58.279Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:38:59.169Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Ah that's very helpful got it thank you okay let me get over here to the queue.
[2023-08-01T16:38:59.608Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	queue
[2023-08-01T16:39:14.405Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	queue ?
[2023-08-01T16:39:20.814Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2023-08-01T16:39:34.352Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: Yeah what I wanted to talk about the revocation I think it's easier than you may doubt because an object capability has to designate a specific object or to be an object capability and therefore to revoke you only have to notify the service that hosts that object Note to no longer honor that capability is that conform to what you were saying I did.
[2023-08-01T16:39:34.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp:  get that from what you said.
[2023-08-01T16:39:54.115Z]	<Paul_Fuxjaeger>	present+
[2023-08-01T16:40:03.029Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: I think that's fine in the case where you have a service right so for example in the protocol we're building we're not assuming that there's one service that hosts your object your object is a self-certifying data structure that could be living at any number of nodes in the network and so what we need is a way for any node to synchronize this data structure and be able to verify the Integrity of this data structure.
[2023-08-01T16:40:03.536Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  trustless Lee.
[2023-08-01T16:40:12.818Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: And for that to be the case we need to be able to know like what point in time when this was this object capability revoked.
[2023-08-01T16:40:22.534Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: So this is not a mutable object then because otherwise you have to synchronize any updates in which case you can use the same mechanism to synchronize revocations.
[2023-08-01T16:40:37.931Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	"Trustless Lee" is my new favoriate use case actor.
[2023-08-01T16:40:55.699Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Yeah I think I think that's the point yeah you would use the same method to synchronize revocations but if you want to verify the Integrity of historical events in this data structure you need to know that hey this key be was valid at time one time to it got revoked and the time three was not valid and I need to have this information if I want to know that like the previous event that happened previous point in time it's.
[2023-08-01T16:40:56.113Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  still to be considered valid.
[2023-08-01T16:41:11.592Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: Time time is a tricky thing whose time the only one that makes sense again is the place that going to do the update and that's distributed that's a real tricky problem there are other ways to handle it maybe we should talk offline.
[2023-08-01T16:41:15.633Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: To me this is the.
[2023-08-01T16:41:19.949Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: That has no say for example a forwarding proxy that you can just stop forwarding.
[2023-08-01T16:41:42.267Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: To me this is the problem that blockchains all right like if you read the Bitcoin right they were the way the way they said oh she actually describes it is as the decentralized time-stamping service and I think that's like a really powerful thing to leverage in this these cases.
[2023-08-01T16:41:48.117Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: Right then you can just put the revocation on the blockchain and when you get a request you can see if it's been revoked.
[2023-08-01T16:42:07.233Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Yeah I think I think putting it on the blockchain might be expensive what you can do is you can put a bunch of applications in a Merkle tree with the root of that function and have some kind of other peer-to-peer gossiping or synchronization mechanism.
[2023-08-01T16:42:24.209Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: Right okay I have to learn more about your system but I think I think that problem is not as difficult as you made it out to be and I don't think that Stein timestamps are you have to think very carefully about what timestamps me.
[2023-08-01T16:42:26.276Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2023-08-01T16:43:05.046Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah thanks Kimberly this was a great July you know I think you hit on a number of challenges that we have in the in the did ecosystem and I think it's really interesting how you you know broke the part bring the multiple parts right so one of them is it is interesting to be able to classify these did methods by the traits that they have right then you some would say like it's a feature set so it t in did.
[2023-08-01T16:43:05.499Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  PK ages.
[2023-08-01T16:43:36.350Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is different from did web and which is different from did ion and did BDC and the the etherium based did so I thought that was the one thing that you highlighted or re highlighted that was really important I thought the other really interesting thing that you're highlighting here is that there is a way to use object capabilities as a binding mechanism between two different did methods.
[2023-08-01T16:43:36.692Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  meaning you know the.
[2023-08-01T16:43:38.126Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2023-08-01T16:43:42.228Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	ack alan
[2023-08-01T16:44:08.559Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The cryptographic delegation is a useful thing to have and then finally the way that you spoke about the time stamping services in Alan you know I think of them as you know ordering Services as well meaning like you have to understand the order in which these things happened in and if you and you need to be able to Anchor that to some common trust model so I totally agree with you Joel that that's largely.
[2023-08-01T16:44:08.864Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  Lee the service that block chains provide.
[2023-08-01T16:44:39.520Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Going all the way back to the original Bitcoin paper I think the challenge here in this is in like this is not a solved problem right I mean if we solve this problem then this is that would be huge it would allow us to you know potentially largely reduce the number of did methods they are and so on so forth I think the challenge is you know putting the pieces together in the right order and it's what Alan kind of highlighted it's like at some point.
[2023-08-01T16:44:39.907Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  if you start depending.
[2023-08-01T16:45:12.631Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Time stamping service then it raises the question well isn't it just easier to store all the data there as well and as you said Joel well that might you know rocket the cost of the transaction up and we don't want to do that in a way to mitigate that is Markle so we've got all this stuff kind of bubbling around at this soup of potential you know solutions that we could provide and I think that one of the biggest challenges here Joe and I'm interested in your thoughts on this is.
[2023-08-01T16:45:12.909Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  the complexity that this adds to.
[2023-08-01T16:45:45.724Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um to implementers the the wallets and things of that nature so we are already mired in complexity right now with all the different did methods and requiring a effectively a universal resolver to be able to resolve all of them do you feel like the level of complexity is the same if we did the 0 cap and delegation approach with the time stamping service versus a universal resolver like how would you rate.
[2023-08-01T16:45:46.124Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  the complexity of.
[2023-08-01T16:45:51.041Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: To those Solutions is one easier than the other.
[2023-08-01T16:46:19.555Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Well first of all I think I have a feeling that even if you have a resolver that is universal or whatnot you still probably want to rely on some kind of object capabilities at some point and now you're kind of stacking complexity on top of each other which seems not like the greatest idea and so my intuition is tells me like.
[2023-08-01T16:46:19.865Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  let's just put the cam.
[2023-08-01T16:46:46.597Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: In the way to revoke object capabilities and keep the kind of lower-level cryptographic Primitives as simple as possible I do think the object capability registry and like ability to revoke that is not super simple and it's helped to solve like if we want like one universal solution to that.
[2023-08-01T16:46:50.191Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: But I think that.
[2023-08-01T16:46:59.768Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: It could potentially be something that applications juices like hey my application over here.
[2023-08-01T16:47:14.667Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Pass the simple revocation approach another application over here has some other approach to that but we can still enter operate on these like generative DOD methods and different representations of object capabilities.
[2023-08-01T16:47:45.592Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: I mean I think the universal resolver approach works if you're fine with having your application rely on some service somewhere that you used to resolve the ID methods if you're not fine with that you want more resilience and you want your application to be more of a more beautiful nature that might not be a trade out of that you want to make.
[2023-08-01T16:47:56.591Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: So can you give me an example of.
[2023-08-01T16:48:01.588Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: The type of use case where I would want it to be.
[2023-08-01T16:48:11.264Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Like I can enough T wallet like you talked about before that that would be maybe a place is or is there a better use case that you can help me picture.
[2023-08-01T16:48:22.103Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: That'd be great.
[2023-08-01T16:48:23.903Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2023-08-01T16:48:38.640Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Maybe I can give an example of how we use generative Theory methods and object capabilities in the protocol and building ceramic and then maybe expand from that the right now basically all accounts and ceramic is either an aquarium account or some other watching account but the majority of inventory is like a dream accounts for this we use dat PT h.
[2023-08-01T16:49:09.677Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: As of the normal flow when a user comes in application that uses ceramic as kind of a data storage network is that user arrives deprecation in the backgrounds the application generates h i thinki this session key is is like a dead key very simple then the application prompts the user to sign a message and this is a normal kind of standardized within the human Community called sign in with interior and this message essentially contains.
[2023-08-01T16:49:36.156Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: The public interest and it also contains a list of resources that this key is allowed to write to you sign this message with your wallet and the application gets the message and the signature back and so in our case that resource is ceramic URL basically an IDE for Unique resource.
[2023-08-01T16:50:08.589Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: And as long as this D the session key can produce a signature that includes the hash of this up the capability and also pass this along this object capability any ceramic Network Pierre can validate the Integrity of this objective ability and see that okay this session key is actually allowed to write to this resource so that's that's how we use them to capabilities right now and ceramic.
[2023-08-01T16:50:08.914Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  you asked about.
[2023-08-01T16:50:37.179Z]	<Alan_Karp>	q+
[2023-08-01T16:50:42.030Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: About the Manistee or something like this we could imagine instead of a resource being owned by like enter their email address you could be owned by an entity as in that case we would have like one extra step of the radiation so when the user comes in application the application simply generates a state proof from ethereum showing that like there's proof from the nft to the owner and then there's a session key and there's a proof from the.
[2023-08-01T16:50:42.447Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  Terry mattress to that session key and.
[2023-08-01T16:51:04.509Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: The session key we can present these two object capabilities together it can write to this resource on surf Mike this is not something we have implemented yet though but it's something that we're kind of planning to do and we want to do it in a way where the only kind of require have like a light client requirements.
[2023-08-01T16:51:08.985Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Okay that's very helpful thank you Dimitri.
[2023-08-01T16:51:14.077Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: I just wanted to add too.
[2023-08-01T16:51:31.212Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Active outside and don't answer your question so think of it as being able to delegate to an f t wallets or any kind of cryptocurrency allows you to access the audience of.
[2023-08-01T16:51:42.919Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: We use things like meta mask who have enough teas right it'll it's less than that you should choose it for a new use case and more it gives you a wider audience of people with wallets.
[2023-08-01T16:52:14.545Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Yeah exactly as far as I know the kind of cryptocurrency ecosystem and distribution of walls is the largest distribution of private keys or like public key infrastructure we're actually and like actually people have control over their own Keys which I think is very aligned with what the whole can of the idea because system is trying to achieve.
[2023-08-01T16:52:16.884Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great thank you both Allen.
[2023-08-01T16:52:29.907Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: One thing you didn't mention if you have a time-stamping service you can make short-lived capabilities and just rely on the exploration time instead of explicitly revoking.
[2023-08-01T16:53:02.440Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: That's right here and that's actually what we're doing for our objective abilities that we use however you still need to notarize the events that you produce using that object capability because if if I produce a bunch of events that at Time 1 and the object capability expires the time to the time passes and now it's time 3 I send basically my.
[2023-08-01T16:53:02.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel:  Pierce and those events.
[2023-08-01T16:53:20.262Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: From your perspective with you see like yes I'm three but you have a bunch of things are signed with the object capability that was expired a kind to so I'm not going to accept them as well however you have a proof that this was time-stamped before that you can accept those.
[2023-08-01T16:53:23.937Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: Right now I just a matter of how you handle the expiration time.
[2023-08-01T16:53:41.492Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: But it resolves the problem you mentioned distributed resources and needing to get the revocation signal to them you could just rely on the timeouts.
[2023-08-01T16:53:53.279Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Yeah I mean unless you have an expiration time this like too far into the future and you actually want to revoke a key.
[2023-08-01T16:54:14.999Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: Well that again that's why I don't like just I don't like using expiration times but certainly a good fallback and if you have a distributed system sometimes it's just the simplest thing the hard part actually of the expiration time is you didn't want to revoke so you have to reissue the capability that's typically the trickiest part.
[2023-08-01T16:54:30.114Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Yeah and as far as actually that's very simple because if you come to an application the application notice is that the session key has a capability that's been expired it's trivial to generate a new one a snoozer designing new message.
[2023-08-01T16:54:31.933Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: So your situation it's actually easier than in most.
[2023-08-01T16:54:38.485Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2023-08-01T16:54:41.062Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: All right anyone else with it with a question for Joel.
[2023-08-01T16:54:48.896Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	q+
[2023-08-01T16:54:55.111Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Alright great thank you so much to all for coming and sharing this information with us oh Ted.
[2023-08-01T16:54:58.074Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Yes we've added some things.
[2023-08-01T16:55:01.140Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Just a quick request for a link quick request for a link to the deck.
[2023-08-01T16:55:06.370Z]	<Phil_T3>	Does this allow you to reissue keys and map them to the deprecaed key?
[2023-08-01T16:55:07.565Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Yeah sure let's see if I can share this.
[2023-08-01T16:55:16.309Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Phil we have a couple minutes you want to pop on and ask your question.
[2023-08-01T16:55:19.920Z]	<Joel>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1JBJsFRAtlP0t07BjE1oausgvkplBrriu/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=101173869656507147085&rtpof=true&sd=true
[2023-08-01T16:55:22.764Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_T3: Thank you but I'm pretty wiped out from covid at the moment so if you could.
[2023-08-01T16:55:34.202Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Oh no I'll ask it for you then Jal Phil Phil is wondering does this allow you to reissue keys and map them to the deprecated key.
[2023-08-01T16:56:05.566Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: I'm not sure if I understand the question but you could definitely I don't know what we issue a keep means but you can you can revoke a key and delegate same access that I key has two different key I mean in theory you could revoke a key then like unruly like give the capability again.
[2023-08-01T16:56:10.077Z]	<Transcriber>	Joel: Probability model is very flexible.
[2023-08-01T16:56:14.007Z]	<Phil_T3>	The context is when you move for a cloud-based central wallte and need to reiusse the creds to an indiependent credenital
[2023-08-01T16:56:32.828Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Flexible is good all right thank you everyone for coming today and engaging in this conversation I learned a lot and deepening my knowledge I'm not sure I'm ready to explain it at a in the elevator but I'll work on it so thank you again Joe lat thank you everyone for coming and we'll see you next Tuesday.