Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-03-27-vc-education/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-03-27-vc-education/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC for Education Task Force Transcript for 2023-03-27

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2023Mar/0006.html
Topics:
  1. IP Note
  2. Call Notes
  3. Introductions & Reintroductions
  4. VC Specification Directory 
    https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/
Organizer:
  Dmitri Zagidulin
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Dmitri Zagidulin, Phil L (P1), Nis Jespersen , Chris Webber, 
  Chandi Cumaranatunge, Simone Ravaoli, James Chartrand, Kerri 
  Lemoie, Stuart Freeman, David Ward, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau 
  (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Jake, Deb Everhart, David 
  Baumgartner@smartEduWallet, Jeff O - HumanOS, Kimberly Linson, 
  Colin Reynolds, Ed Design Lab, Timg, Ryan Grant, Kayode Ezike, 
  Mahesh Balan - pocketcred.com, Kaliya Young, Etan, Lucy Yang, 
  Marty Reed, Naomi, Tim Gunther, Jim Goodell

Dmitri Zagidulin: Genda: 
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2023Mar/0007.html
<phil_l_(p1)> Audio check?
<phil_l_(p1)> @Dmitri - thank you ;-)
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.

Topic: IP Note

Dmitri Zagidulin:  Quick IP note yeah there we go okay P note 
  anyone can participate in the calls however substantive 
  contributions to any CGI item C ccg work item including anything 
  this task force does you must be a member of the ccg and sign the 
  IPR agreement.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   So please.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Let us know if you under it.

Topic: Call Notes

Dmitri Zagidulin:  Minutes will be recorded and then post it on 
  the archive we use GT chat or IRC to queue up speakers for 
  questions and so on some blood type Q Plus to be added to the 
  queue or raise your hand here and just see.

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

Dmitri Zagidulin:  Eight introductions and reintroduction so is 
  anyone new here on the call that would like to introduce 
  themselves.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right Todd doesn't sound like I have 
  anybody knew it does anybody want to reintroduce a anybody have a 
  new position or just haven't spoken in a while.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  In this group.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Collin go ahead.
Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab: Hey morning afternoon evening 
  everyone I just I wanted to put out there I started working with 
  education Design Lab a few months ago I was previously working 
  with morning economy Commendation but one thing that I'd Design 
  Lab is doing I think is relevant to this group as we do a lot of 
  work with higher education community colleges some of the talent 
  pipeline into employment and so we've got a lot of implementation 
  projects that are happening.
Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab:  year round.
Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab: Groups using digital wallets and 
  starting to kind of iron out some of the I guess build some of 
  the infrastructure to help data flow through all of their systems 
  both in the higher education side and the employer side and so I 
  just wanted to put that out there for groups of maybe looking for 
  opportunities to either learn more about what this implementation 
  looks like on campuses or with employers or others are doing some 
  more work I would love to.
Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab:  to have conversations.
Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab: From you all about things that are 
  happening in the space and one of the other projects that I've 
  mentioned here previously but as well underway until long since 
  vault in that as well as a consultant is the experience you 
  project where we're working with groups and I think Jake 
  dibattista is actually on this call and he's got a project for 
  this in this space as well but the experience you is really 
  taking on structured learning and employment data structuring it 
  into specific data models to sort of prep for.
Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab:  for implementation all across the 
  ecosystem so I think that is yeah.
<jake> Thanks for the shout out!
Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab: Definitely connect because there's 
  a lot of great stuff happening more on the implementation side 
  and that's sort of where I exist now is really working with teams 
  to iron it out and get some recommendations so if you got a 
  wallet solution or some like Tech solution or something that is 
  helpful in this space would love to connect and find ways to get 
  those plugged in because ultimately interoperability is what 
  we're all working towards and so don't want to leave anybody out 
  and want to learn from from what you all are doing boots on the 
  ground.
Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab:  dial so thanks for the chance to 
  chat.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Absolutely welcome we're glad to have you here 
  Deb I believe you're up next.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Hey everybody I'm thanks Carl 
  let me piggyback on that a little bit I mean you must be under a 
  rock if you're not following what's happening with a I right now 
  and we think that experience you is a really super timely 
  opportunity to train AI systems on how to make meaning out of 
  credential and course and skill and competency data and 
  credential engine were providing.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  being a suite of resources.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): It lets anyone.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Use the CTL schema to train Ai 
  and and the registry as real life data also for training but 
  importantly to help get a lot more information available as 
  structured linked open data using CDL so that directly apropos to 
  this group that data can be included in verifiable credentials so 
  that those verifiable credentials have meaning and that.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  that human beings don't have 
  to do all the work.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): So happy to answer any 
  questions about that.
<kaliya_identitywoman> I don't know what is going on but Jitsi 
  app on my phone no longer has audio working.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Deb and I definitely like to second 
  that if you're an implementer in verifiable credential space and 
  education and you're not familiar with the credential engine 
  Suite of specifications databases are all of that all of that 
  stuff definitely take a look please reach out to Debbie if you 
  have questions and so on.
https://credreg.net/
<david_baumgartner@smarteduwallet> @Colin Thanks for the intro. 
  We've built a LER verifiable credentials lifelong wallet, and 
  we've focused on interoperability. Would love to connect: 
  David.Baumgartner@e-duproof.com
Dmitri Zagidulin:  How he is mentioning that jitsi app on the 
  phone stopped working yes Coley agreed I've experienced the same 
  thing so if you're on mobile and you can't hear anything but you 
  won't hear me saying this but you want to use git in the browser 
  on mobile that that actually works all right announcements and.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Yeah because of community announcements.
<colin_reynolds,_ed_design_lab> Here is the Experience You 
  dashboard we have been curating for project work. Would love all 
  to have a look and share resources, links, etc you think helpful 
  for AI teams structuring LERs at scale: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/14A8OONYGHq-Exsiqama6mC_NopBr1WJzUCLej67Dmx4/edit
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah go ahead.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> we're putting together a 
  1-pager on how to use these existing resources for AI 
  applications and plugins
Dmitri Zagidulin: https://diceurope.org/
Kaliya Young:  Yeah for folks who are based in Europe or those 
  who want to come to Europe we have the digital identity 
  unconference Europe or dice coming up June 7 to 9 so this is a 
  real opportunity for anybody who is sort of on the ground in the 
  real world building who wants to connect with other implementers 
  to do so.
Kaliya Young:  Of the days there's a sort of half day orientation 
  one too many talks but the the second two days are unconference 
  format the same way we do at iiw using open space technology so 
  I'm hoping that folks who are on list in Europe can spread the 
  word because we really need to get the word out now so we get 
  enough people there in June I'll put the URL.
Kaliya Young: http://www.diceurope.org
Kerri Lemoie:  I can hear you.
Simone Ravaoli: 
  https://ec.europa.eu/digital-building-blocks/wikis/display/EBSI/EBSI+Experience+Center
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you so much and I apologize for the 
  silence I was speaking but of course I muted myself thank you for 
  the link in chat and I'm wondering if it would be possible to 
  organize something in conjunction with the conference clear 
  mentioned dice Europe which I'm personally looking forward to 
  certainly I cleared the did you have did you want to say anything 
  else.
<simone_ravaioli> Great idea Dmitry !
Kaliya Young:  I'm not well I'm on clear if I got cut off or not 
  but.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  No no you oh just say it say it anyways yeah.
Kaliya Young:  No I don't have more to say I just really hope 
  that a variety of communities working on these you know can use 
  the event in the way that folks Uzziah W is to get real work done 
  and there's a ball forward and they don't need to organize their 
  own separate events that can just use our event you know.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That and that's a very good point and it 
  sounds like Simona is interested in in coordinating something 
  with regards to the ab c-- announcement that he mentioned and 
  yeah I'm personally definitely looking forward to the dice 
  unconference thank you for organizing it.

Topic: VC Specification Directory https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/

Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right that case I'll let's move on to our 
  main event and at any point please feel free to put yourself on 
  the Q&A questions welcome so we wanted to talk today a little bit 
  about a fairly recent development from the verifiable credential 
  working group group that is currently working on the VC 2.0 data 
  model.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  One of the one of the mechanisms that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The working group has identified is this 
  notion of a VC specification directory so it's so what is it is a 
  Respec formatted specification which just serves as a directory 
  of pointers to other relevant specs the whole thing is on GitHub 
  which means you can.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Open issues.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  To ask questions you can make pull requests to 
  propose adding your own VC related specification to do that 
  directory so what do we mean by it's an extension Point mechanism 
  and how does it interplay with linked data so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Because the core of verifiable credentials are 
  uses json-ld contacts and linked data as an implementer you're 
  free to add.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Their contexts any other properties to the VC 
  data model as long as they don't conflict with the existing.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  He 2.0 properties defined in the specification 
  so you can't redefine the credential subject the top-left 
  critical subject property for example because the compiler the 
  json-ld processor will give you an error but.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Hi that whatever you're working on.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  In in education in other verticals uses a new 
  field or uses fields in a slightly different manner that other 
  people basically you're going to need to customize their fiber 
  credentials especially the contents right so if the v-spec 
  defines the envelope of the assigned verifiable objects.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   What it doesn't Define.
<david_baumgartner@smarteduwallet> @Simone Our platform 
  smartEduWallet is based in Europe and would like to connect re 
  the EC Digital Building Blocks event you mentioned.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  At least up to the community is of course the 
  contents and we're starting to see some vertical specific 
  specifications such as the open badges version 3 and the CLR 2.0 
  specification so they both use the outer envelope of air five 
  credentials but constrain and specify the contents of the of what 
  gets put inside the envelope.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Can you create something like an extension to 
  VC can you create something like open badges without 
  participating in this directory yes absolutely so by itself as is 
  the verifiable credentials data model is meant to be extensible.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  What this directory does is it's aiming to be 
  a Central Community Resource that points to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It's extensions and specifications I used by 
  education Community is the and pretty much anybody else 
  participating in ccg credentials working group and Beyond.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So what are what are some of the things that 
  are in there I'll pull up the I'll pull up the directory in just 
  a second but I want to say that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The moment it contains several things 
  specifications for various signature methods such as linked data 
  integrity and I imagine in the future it will point to the Json 
  web token serialization of our fabric credentials and so on.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It lists specifications for existing 
  properties such as okay so the base back defines credential 
  status property but only defines only reserves it but doesn't say 
  what you're actually going to do with it so in order to find 
  examples of credential status you would go to this directory and 
  and look at the specs listed there we'll take a look in just a 
  second and and thirdly.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   The directory has.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  New verifiable credential data model 
  properties of the new top level properties of up which Give an 
  example in a second so let's let's take a look at some of these 
  and and then we'll take questions and then we'll have we can have 
  a discussion of and general extension mechanisms and what some of 
  these imply so let's let's open up the rendered directory.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Okay one second.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Let me share the right screen.
Dmitri Zagidulin: https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And this is the this is this thing that I'll 
  be looking at.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Alright so here's here's an example or rather 
  sorry here's what the directory looks like this moment in time so 
  has an introduction has instructions on how to add to it but 
  here's what we got in it so the section 2.1 credential status.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Spell specifications for an existing property 
  just credential status so for example status list 2021 which is 
  what most implementers are using and also one edx revocation 
  status list method and so you can see that in addition to the 
  spec it lists the maintainers email and website so you can get 
  into contact with them so you can send questions and.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Bugs pull requests.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That sort of thing similarly credential schema 
  is an existing core property in the in the specifications so 
  here's here's a few.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Scheme of specs in use the community one 
  created by the working group one donated by one edtech and a 
  newer one also by view their fiber credentials working group done 
  in open API which is a superset of Json schema.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Here's a example link to evidence existing 
  field and here's the Ed 255 19.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Specification for for signing so this is where 
  all the different proof methods we are going to go so different 
  key types different civilizations such as linked data versus Json 
  web token and so on.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Here's an.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Five refresh service spec terms of use and 
  some vertical specific verifiable credential types such as as 
  mentioned open badges CLR version 2 and of course the Exon work 
  that the traceability task force of this ECG has been doing.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So let's pause here and see if we have any 
  questions about the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The director and the general-purpose 
  mechanism.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right so let's take a look at some of the 
  let's look at a sneak preview of some of the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Some of the proposals for new.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  There are mechanisms and top-level properties 
  that are coming to the Bible credential specifications directory 
  near you so one moment while stop sharing.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So one of the things that members of this 
  community are working on that might be of interest to you 
  specifically is for example I think we mentioned in an earlier 
  vco2 call work being done on this notion of a very Fab credential 
  rendering hint so a lot of us wallet issue and verifier 
  implementers you on this call half.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Struggled with the problem of.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Okay so Ivory as a wallet user I received a 
  new credential how is the wall going to know how to render it how 
  to display it so of course we have the sort of innovation 
  mechanism where each wallet essentially competes on how well they 
  can display the credential and and that's an important aspect of 
  it but we also from talking with with issuers and with other 
  implementers we saw a very strong need for.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Issuers being able to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Press preferences that hey Downstream when 
  rendering this credential here's some possible templates or 
  images or other mechanisms that you can use there's also demand 
  for rendering credentials in different modalities so visually but 
  also what about voice what about accessibility mechanisms like 
  Braille right we asked verifiable credentials become more 
  prevalent the world we need to consider all of that stuff.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  This is going.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Rocketing with a verifiable credentials in 
  many different environments many different modalities some of 
  them will be resource-constrained some of them will be you know 
  regular desktops and so you can render credentials very 
  elaborately but so the rendering hands provides mechanisms for 
  consistent display and and other modes of presentation.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So several of us worked on a paper and much 
  like everything else with a verifiable credential the render hint 
  is going to be a flexible point of extension so you'd be able to 
  make proposals form for rendering mechanisms that will go into 
  that property and so and the proposals range from something as 
  simple as here is a pre-rendered credential as a PNG image.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   So that's that's a mechanism for example I 
  used by previous.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Open open badges specification and they can be 
  the image can be linked or embedded into the credential and of 
  course we can we can talk about the various security trade-offs 
  between linking and embedding security and usability trade-offs 
  really.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So that's that's one end of the simple 
  Spectrum on the more complex side of the spectrum of rendering 
  you would be able to link to a for example HTML or SVG.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Opponent that the wallet can use.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  To render though the credential and of course 
  both with HTML and SVG and other rendering Technologies there's 
  gonna be much discussion for how to render it safely how to 
  prevent any sort of code injection attacks and all of those other 
  things that you take into consideration so rendering hint is 
  going to be a general purpose mechanisms that is also able to use 
  existing a rendering.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Nations that are in progress such as diffs.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Asian exchange display specification the open 
  badges style image and and several others so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Specification proposing the render property.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Is an example of something that's going to be 
  added to the VC specifications directory.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So that'll be a short Standalone spec hey 
  there is this property that you might want to use and then 
  separately they could be links to the specific specifications of 
  the rendering property.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Similarly I think we've earlier on ABC edu 
  call Phil Long myself and gold fellas did a presentation of this 
  notion of cryptographically composing distinct Standalone 
  credentials in a verifiable way you and also introducing this 
  general-purpose digest hash from mechanisms that can be used for 
  various things and verifiable credentials.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   So that's that's another example of the spec.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And then of course for those of you who may 
  not have seen the recent presentation in the ccg call I think it 
  was last week or the week before that by Manos Forney and others 
  a large number of stakeholders have come together from from train 
  from too many too many communities for from the trust over IP 
  foundation and several other projects.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   I have come.
Kaliya Young: https://github.com/undp
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Rate on this notion of trust Registries and 
  what do we mean by trust registry as well to start with they're 
  collaborating on a way to specify the ability for a verifier to 
  constrain verification to a list of known and trusted agents so 
  that sounds abstract what does it mean for example for us.
Kaliya Young: https://github.com/undp/Regi-TRUST
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The ability for self issued credentials is 
  very important one in education but also in addition it's 
  extremely important for us to be able to say when going to verify 
  this diploma this particular verifier will want to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Saint for example nationally accredited.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Higher education institutions or this verifier 
  is going to be dealing with only accredited high schools in the 
  European Union so this notion of being able to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Bubbly and in a community centered fashion 
  Define lists of trusted verifiers an issuer's that's what the 
  spec is about and it's being incubated in the ccg under the 
  verifiable issuers and verify your specification and again that 
  is that's another one Speck that will be most likely added to the 
  VC specs directory.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Pause here see if people have any questions.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I see Mona go ahead.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Absolutely so at minimum you should open an 
  issue on the VC specifications directory saying hey here's this 
  extension I would really like it so that's the minimum the 
  recommended path that other piece I personally I think the other 
  co-chairs of this group would share is bring it up on a community 
  call first and then open an issue so bring it up here.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   On one of these calls bring it up on the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Credentials community group call.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Or the if you're a member of the VC working 
  group mention it there that way.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That can be some preliminary Community 
  discussions of whether this is a good idea or no this is this is 
  going to lead to the following security problems and then after 
  that a discussion of patient we amend the core BC data model to 
  include this property and spoiler given that the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  EC data model working group is aiming.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  For a essentially a feature freeze and the 
  next couple of weeks it's unlikely that the group is going to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Agree to expanding the core data model and so 
  in fact the the render hint and the digest hash link mechanism 
  were both proposed to the VC data model working group as 
  extensions to the core spec and and the group pushed back and 
  said no we don't have time before the code freeze and and in any 
  case here is this general purpose extension mechanism which is 
  how the specification is intended.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Station directory is intended.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So instead of.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Expanding the core data model spec we're going 
  to Define general purpose extension points and you would do it 
  there so hopefully that answers your question go ahead Simoni.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yes that would be up perfect candidate so 
  definitely open an issue on the Visa directory saying hey let's 
  add the European credential type and then if you familiar with 
  GitHub and with HTML editing please make a direct pull request 
  and add a link in the type section if not reach out to one of us 
  here in the community.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   You and I will be able to help you make that.
Simone Ravaoli: 
  https://github.com/european-commission-empl/European-Learning-Model/blob/ELM-v3/rdf/samples/credential-sample.jsonld
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Is he out perfect thanks for the data model 
  Link in the chat.
<kayode_ezike> If I understand correctly, each extension point 
  proposal would introduce a new context, correct?
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Anybody else any other questions about the 
  directory and extending.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So coyote in chat is asking does each 
  extension Point introduced a new context and generally yes so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  If you're adding a new property of the DC data 
  model.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  You would need to define context for it if 
  you're expanding upon an existing property such as credential 
  status evidence terms of use and you're also going to need to be 
  defining those new types and those sub properties somewhere and 
  one of the things that you're going to do is publish a context 
  now as a VC Community we're working on tools to make publishing 
  create a new context to be push-button.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  In fact there are such tools already but we're 
  working on improving them but for the moment if you're an 
  implementer in the space and you'd like to create a extension 
  point a proposal and you're unsure on how to create a context 
  please reach out to one of the chairs here in this in this group 
  and we'll walk you through how to create a context hosted and so 
  on now can you.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Can you add.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Or expand upon an existing property without 
  creating context yes these days yes because one of the things 
  that the VC working group added to the 2.0 core VC context is 
  this vocabulary mechanism and what it means is that now.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  If you add new properties anywhere in the 
  credential and you don't provide a specific context for them they 
  will all go into this catch-all vocab bucket they will all be 
  expanded into this core VC data model new undefined term bucket 
  so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Can we do.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Have to add new fields to the context know you 
  can rely on the vocab catch-all however it is strongly 
  recommended that you add a new context to finding a new fields.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Does that does that answer your question 
  coyote.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Excellent anyone else.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Questions about tension points rendering 
  posing credentials trust registries.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Oh why don't one other important sort of topic 
  that is an extension point that is currently a hot issue of 
  discussion in the VC working group and that is this notion of 
  mapping from the core if I'm going to choose link data model to 
  other civilizations.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  C bar that there are there are multiple VCC 
  realizations in a compressed binary format based on c bar which 
  is like Json but in binary so we have C Boreal D and we have some 
  of the new proposals such as Christopher Allen's gordian 
  credentials such as Sam Smith's AC/DC credentials right so the 
  group is come up with this notion.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   If you want to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Over the wire or on disc format for verifiable 
  credentials to be saved without losing information right so we 
  want to have we want to have both we want to have loss of 
  translation between see realizations but we want to be able to 
  innovate we want to be able to propose new compression methods 
  new.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Isis over the wire methods so the working 
  group is currently discussing this notion of defining a one-way 
  or two-way mapping from the core.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  DC link data model to alternative radio 
  stations.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So that's definitely something to keep an eye 
  on as the discussion progresses and as new specification format 
  sorry as new serialization formats get proposed will cover them 
  on a separate VC edu call because might be of interest.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  To to this community.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Let's see any other questions.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right so we will we will talk to you all 
  on the next call.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Wish everyone happy reading of the many 
  specifications in this directory.
<phil_l_(p1)> Great night time reading for sure!
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Please open issues pull requests and reach out 
  to members of this community or the co-chairs with any questions 
  that you have.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  As felt points out in Chad definitely great 
  nighttime reading.
<david_baumgartner@smarteduwallet> Thanks Dmitri!
<colin_reynolds,_ed_design_lab> Thank you!
<kerri_lemoie> Thanks!
<phil_l_(p1)> Thanks Dmitri~
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks all cheers have a great day.
