Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-04-12-vcapi/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-04-12-vcapi/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC API Task Force Transcript for 2022-04-12

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Apr/0079.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions, Relevant Community Updates
  2. Use cases update
  3. Heads up on conversation on authz and /exchanges
  4. Verifiers MUST cryptographically sign their challenges
  5. Broken paths for test reports caused by changes to this repo
  6. BbsBls sig test fixtures
  7. Establish and document permanent URLs for specification and 
    resources by version
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny, Orie Steele, Markus Sabadello, Mike Varley, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Manu Sporny, Mike Varley, Justin Richer, PL, Eric Schuh, Dave 
  Longley, Kayode Ezike, Andy Miller, Joe Andrieu, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Matthias Gottlieb, Brian 
  Richter, Shawn Butterfield, Kaliya Young

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Manu Sporny:  All right hey everyone welcome to the April 12th 
  2022 VC API call the agenda was placed into the channel a bit ago 
  here it is again on the agenda today is basically issue 
  processing we're just going to keep going through issues with a 
  minor kind of call out.
Manu Sporny:  Issues that anyone feels or timely or worth 
  discussing let's talk about those first before going through kind 
  of the the rest of the issues let's go ahead and start out with 
  any kind of introductions relevant Community updates anything 
  like that.

Topic: Introductions, Relevant Community Updates

Manu Sporny:  Woudl anyone like to introduce yourself to the 
  group, any introductions?
Manu Sporny:  All right I think most of us have been on the call 
  before so we'll get ahead go ahead and get into Community News 
  any Community News any updates.
Manu Sporny:  From the general community.
Manu Sporny:  All right the only I think only update think we 
  have some folks weren't here last week we have new test Suites 
  for the basic issue or in basic verifier API so those are on the 
  minutes from last week the goal of those test Suites are 
  basically two just at a very minimal you just do a very minimal 
  test do you.
Manu Sporny:   Support the.
Manu Sporny:  Epi the end point do you support verification that 
  sort of thing the goal of those kind of micro test Suites is to 
  put them all together so we hope to have we hope that those base 
  apis end up driving a whole bunch of other feature apis like the 
  crypto sweet apis like credential refresh.
Manu Sporny:  And things of that nature the goal here is to have 
  a bunch of small test Suites that you can kind of point to your 
  infrastructure so your VC API endpoints just what you support and 
  then that will end up the test Suite will run against that 
  infrastructure for very targeted and points like credential 
  issuing or presentation verification or things of that nature we 
  will we're.
Manu Sporny:   Still working on kind of the.
Manu Sporny:  Output format for each test Suite they'll all the 
  test Suites are intending we are intending for them to have a 
  common output format in with that common output format the goal 
  here is to have like a multi ecosystem like a multi industry 
  vertical site that basically puts all of those tests we results 
  together so education sector retail sector financial sector.
Manu Sporny:  Did he say.
Manu Sporny:  They're all that kind of traceability all those 
  sectors would be able to pull those data files in in kind of show 
  what cross-industry interop looks like show which platform 
  support certain verifiable credentials and so on and so forth so 
  the the first kind of round of that stuff kind of went out last 
  week so that's in last week's minutes for anyone that wants to 
  catch up on that let me pause there any.
Manu Sporny:   Any questions concerns about any of.
Manu Sporny:  Okay if not we'll go ahead and.
Manu Sporny:  Let me go ahead and bring the issues up here.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Eric you had a question.

Topic: Use cases update

Eric Schuh:  We're just wanted to give a quick update on the use 
  cases since I've been traveling for the better part of the last 
  month so I think last time we had left off we had kind of shown 
  some images of sequence diagrams that I had put together just 
  wanted to let tall Ted in the whole group know that Joe has 
  created a script that will convert our output into.
Eric Schuh:  So that should allow for easier commenting on 
  specific line items in the sequence diagrams and I'm looking to 
  get that update pushed here in the next week before hopefully 
  this call next week and then also at the same time Joe and I are 
  going to be going through the diagrams because right now they're 
  just my first pass so just taking a second pass with a second set 
  of eyes so if anyone else would like to join in on that either 
  send Joe or myself an email.
Eric Schuh:  And I guess just for you Manu may be looking at two 
  to three weeks from now having kind of update on this call may be 
  spending 20 minutes or however long we think is needed to kind of 
  take a look at those diagrams.
Manu Sporny:  Awesome that's a great update thank you Eric yeah 
  plus 12 that happy to put you on the agenda whenever whenever you 
  feel it's ready do you do you think you're going to like email 
  mailing list with kind of an update before just like what's the 
  trigger for that are you just going to email me email mailing 
  list let's.
Eric Schuh:  I could do either I'll say I'll email the mailing 
  list and possibly you as well just to make sure it gets through.
Manu Sporny:  Okay sounds great thank you for that.
Manu Sporny:  We're how much more work do you feel I mean you 
  know use cases are like this constant you know iterative thing 
  until basically the working groups done with version 10 with that 
  said do you feel like you know the first and this is really the 
  second iteration is more or less done or what do you what kind of 
  work do you foresee after that first iteration.
Eric Schuh:  The main thing that will hopefully come out of that 
  work I think is to help identify the gaps in endpoints that are 
  currently missing in the actual spec itself and possibly if 
  people start to see actual kind of formal sequence diagrams in 
  the use cases in the document maybe it will trigger some people 
  to go back and.
Eric Schuh:  Use cases to have it that haven't made it into that 
  document yet that needed a little bit more work in some way shape 
  or form so those would kind of be the two paths I think coming 
  out of it Joe I would prompt you here if you have anything to 
  add.
Joe Andrieu:  Should we we've got a good set of Base use cases.
<eric_schuh> For reference if people want to see what mermaid 
  flow diagrams will look like: 
  https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/
Joe Andrieu:  I think all sort of are on the order of focal use 
  cases and I think we just need to clean that up and decide if we 
  want so we have some choices about scope that we need to make 
  about the document itself but I think when we get back from this 
  this working through the the sequence diagrams we should have the 
  foundation of a document that would be will have a clear map from 
  here to the end of the word.
Manu Sporny:  All right sounds good is this next iteration is it 
  a translation into Respec or is this just still in Google Docs 
  with mermaid diagram.
Joe Andrieu:  So we are in Respect In fact when I spoke about it 
  last time I misread the readme.md for the the actual document 
  that has everything that Eric has pulled over so there are in 
  fact diagrams in the current DC API use cases.
Eric Schuh: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api-use-cases/
Eric Schuh:  I just said.
Joe Andrieu:  So I would say we're already in the Respec World it 
  may not be up to date or complete in terms of the total scope of 
  the content but there's at least a draft that's in Respec and 
  I'll drop that URL into our chat here good.
Joe Andrieu: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api-use-cases/index.html
Manu Sporny:  Awesome that's great so further further along than 
  we thought we were last week let me go ahead and share my screen 
  and get that on screen.
Manu Sporny:  So this is the current document as at the current 
  nice case is document as it stands right now.
Manu Sporny:  Okay cool very cool and then.
Joe Andrieu:  And Eric I believe you had said that there's this 
  have all the diagrams from the Google Doc or there's some still 
  in the pr.
Eric Schuh:  It has the set of diagrams from the use cases we had 
  accepted when Juan was still leading the use cases Endeavor which 
  was the six of them that you see listed there there are probably 
  another 10 or so use cases that didn't make our cut at that point 
  so if people are feeling like something's missing.
Eric Schuh:  I would ask that.
Eric Schuh:  Go to the Google Doc which I'll link here and.
Eric Schuh:  Take another pass or iteration or send me an email 
  with.
Eric Schuh:  Any updates that you would like to see and we can 
  work through that together.
Manu Sporny:  All right cool yeah looks great it's coming along 
  just a heads up Eric let's see my expectation is you're going to 
  have the source for the mermaid diagrams and somewhere.
Manu Sporny:   Is that.
Eric Schuh:  Yes they will be in the in some way shape or form.
<eric_schuh> Use Cases Google Doc: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit#heading=h.cctvrmgl94xc
<eric_schuh> My email: eric@legreq.com
Manu Sporny:  Okay okay great the reason I mentioned that is you 
  know a I'm again have no idea when I'll get around to it but I'm 
  going to try and add a mermaid render to Respec and once we do 
  that then we will be able to directly embed that Source in the 
  respect file and it will render into the respect document we 
  won't have to convert to SVG anymore for example.
Manu Sporny:   Okay good.
Manu Sporny:  Anything else on use cases.
Manu Sporny:  Updates questions concerns.
Manu Sporny:  Okay thank you very much for that update Eric in 
  Joe next up our issues I do want to point out very active 
  conversation that's happening right now that folks might not have 
  seen so let me pull this up active conversation on w z and end 
  points.

Topic: Heads up on conversation on authz and /exchanges

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/279
Manu Sporny:  Issue 279 has 67 comments in like 14 days for those 
  of you that have not been following along this is one of the 
  places that ccg discussion around open ID went so there's been a 
  big question and trying to kind of deconstruct does the exchanges 
  and point that we have right now to find does it always need 
  artsy or.
Manu Sporny:   Or is Asia.
Manu Sporny:  Optional in that conversation is gone in the bunch 
  of different places and healthy you know in healthy places with 
  diagrams on you know what the flows are and you know what what 
  how chappie you know connects to the VC AP and BP are and what 
  some of those kind of flows and security models look like I think 
  there was also a commentary on.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah there's I think Mike you proposed you know 
  some stuff here about how do you get the identity of the wallet 
  anyway it's a it's a really good thread and it's incredibly long 
  I don't expect everyone has the time to catch up on that thread 
  but there's a lot of kind of new thinking and Analysis that's 
  going on there so just making sure everyone knows that that 
  discussion at least part of that discussion is happening there.
Manu Sporny:   And we're making some.
Manu Sporny:  Head way around Otzi in open ID and chappy and the 
  different protocols did come in that kind of thing in wallet 
  identity incline identity and things of that nature okay any 
  questions on that before we jump into Mike would you want to or 
  Dave do you want to add anything into that.
Manu Sporny:   Since both.
Manu Sporny:  Active in that thread.
Mike Varley:  This is Mike nothing from me although maybe it 
  might be worthwhile having a summary on this call of sort of 
  where the conversation has got to I think it's still very active 
  so I don't know that that's appropriate you know next week but in 
  order to so people don't have to read 67 plus messages we could 
  just kind of do a readout of where we are and then kind of almost 
  reset the conversation to help people.
Manu Sporny:  Plus one doing that Dave any thoughts.
Dave Longley:  I know I kind of agree with Mike but if you do 
  like reading check out the issue.
Manu Sporny:  I think Mike at the end here you do a loop like a 
  really good job of of a summary of some kind right and so what 
  we're trying to do is break all of these different Technologies 
  into different categories so that we're doing apples-to-apples 
  comparisons against them one of the I think mistakes that we all 
  made in the discussion on the ccg mailing list is confusing 
  chappie with like open IDC.
Manu Sporny:   I like the protocol.
Manu Sporny:  So they were very different things like things 
  called mediators or locators hear things like chappy things like 
  a invoking a protocol Handler on a mobile device the things that 
  initiate a wallet are very different than the protocols that you 
  actually use to move credentials back and forth like VC API and 
  there was quite a bit of conflation of everything together and 
  one of the things.
Manu Sporny:   It has come out of this 67 mess.
Manu Sporny:  Conversation here is we have better categories to 
  lump these Technologies into like chappie is a locator / mediator 
  right and then we have these things that are Discovery protocols 
  where you do things like okay so as a client what can you support 
  how can I talk to you how can we you know can we actually 
  communicate as as might put it then there's session binding like 
  do I know if the person.
Manu Sporny:   Certain that you know is associated.
Manu Sporny: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/279#issuecomment-1095081012
Manu Sporny:  I know that the person that's engaged with me on 
  this website is the same person that's engaged with the digital 
  wallet somewhere out there on the internet how can I how can I 
  know that right so that's what this subject while at the session 
  binding thing is about and then finally there's credential 
  delivery how do I get a credential to you how do you get a 
  credential to me that kind of stuff in there some examples here 
  as well at the very bottom here I'll put the pointer to that in 
  chat as.
Manu Sporny:   As well.
Manu Sporny:  But yeah I think Mikey did an excellent job here 
  kind of summarizing at least where we got to in the conversation 
  so it's bearing fruit but you know it'll be a little little bit 
  longer until we're able to really get down into the details 
  anything else on that before moving into issue processing.
Manu Sporny:  Okay then let's go ahead and get into the first 
  item.
<> Verifier flows over https
Manu Sporny:  Which is a proposal that Ori put forward that 
  basically says the spec will recommend against doing direct 
  issuer to verifier flows over HTTP the thing that there is a cat 
  a bit of a caveat to this which is checking the status doing like 
  a privacy-preserving status check what we're trying.
Manu Sporny:   Trying to.
Manu Sporny:  He clearly is that you know the direct issue to 
  verify our flow is kind of a more traditional IDP to verify or 
  flow it doesn't go through any intermediary like a holder it's 
  just kind of a it's a phone home the concern is around phone home 
  so there's been some discussion here but fundamentally think the 
  proposal was that the spec.
Manu Sporny:   Should argue.
Manu Sporny:  Direct issuer to verifier flows.
Manu Sporny:  One else want to speak to this any other thoughts.
Joe Andrieu:  This sounds correct to me with that carve out that 
  you mentioned so the refresh status check or not the refresh 
  sorry the status check two very different points of extensibility 
  there I think we should describe that and make it clear that that 
  is an acceptable mechanism but make sure it's clear why it's 
  accessible acceptable so that we have that mechanism documented 
  as.
Joe Andrieu:   As a private.
Joe Andrieu:  He preserving best practice through the use cases 
  that we've looked at so far we didn't have any instances where 
  there was a good reason for issuer to verifier communication 
  other than that one check.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so the use case is other than status check do 
  not show that correct make sure to verifier communication is 
  necessary.
Manu Sporny:  Operation of the system and I my expectation so 
  we're basically waiting for a PR on this it's that is that right 
  we just need someone to write a PR that says you know don't do 
  direct issuer to verify our communication with with the caveat 
  that privacy protecting status checks are okay.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead and like on the queue.
Mike Varley:  So I'm just wondering how the spec intends to 
  prevent that or dis encourage besides you're saying there's a 
  reason why you shouldn't be doing this you know to preserve the 
  model the model of self Sovereign you know identity it's the 
  purposes the holders representing the data and we don't have 
  these call homes but how are we going to.
Manu Sporny:  And that's an excellent question we can prevent it 
  right but I think the most that we can do is I mean the 
  commentary that we've put in other specifications like the VC 
  Speck in the did Speck have been taken pretty seriously like when 
  you point to a security or privacy consideration and that's 
  really probably wear this text should go right it should go in 
  the privacy considerations section we should have a sec.
Manu Sporny:   Ian called you know phone home or.
Manu Sporny:  Direct issuer verifier communication and warned 
  that against we've thought about this deeply in general it's a 
  really bad idea don't do it and just have some explanatory text 
  around that that the group did discuss it we did agree that it 
  was a bad idea and so don't do it because people will come at you 
  wagging their finger about what a terrible ecosystem participant 
  you're being right.
Mike Varley:  Right okay and it's also related to the exchanges 
  and point you shouldn't be designing necessarily exchanges that 
  require the verifier to.
Mike Varley:  Suddenly called the issue.
Manu Sporny:  Yes I always very good clarifying set of comments 
  Mike so this should be placed in the privacy considerations 
  considerations section should talk about exchanges chalk about 
  this warning applying to exchanges as well.
Manu Sporny:  Don't phone home um can we start the group 
  considered this and in and in general feels like it's a bad idea 
  okay any other input on this issue before we move on.
Manu Sporny:  Okay I'll mark it as ready for PR and that is that 
  item.
Manu Sporny:  Here's the next topic.

Topic: Verifiers MUST cryptographically sign their challenges

Manu Sporny:  Are fires must cryptographically sign their 
  challenges so this was raised by Ori as well can we remove the 
  optionality for the challenge and domain part of requesting 
  presentation and make it a requirement I suggest we do whatever 
  Lackey presentation exchange does and use a jot like Barack says 
  options could actually be optional or defined as a required 
  parameter if call is required.
Manu Sporny:   Jim Sinclair Sethi.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/188
Manu Sporny:  Likes this issue of trusting the verifiers come up 
  in several conversations so there's some miscommunication 
  happening here as well the miscommunication I think is Jim thinks 
  that this is the verifier digitally signing their request just to 
  identify themselves this goes kind of Daniel hardman's point that 
  he made last week which was this really should be peer-to-peer 
  and both sides of the connection should be identifying 
  themselves.
Manu Sporny:   I believe what orry is saying.
Manu Sporny:  That challenge and domain should never be optional 
  during a presentation and you should always have them.
Manu Sporny:  Trying to parse what Mike saying here.
Manu Sporny:  So I think Mike is saying options should be 
  optional or defined as required for the call the immediate thing 
  that comes up if we do this so let's take a worries suggestion 
  you must sign over challenge in domain destroys all Bearer token 
  use cases so my suggestion is we can't do this because if you 
  have to sign over.
Manu Sporny:  And you are no longer supporting Bearer token use 
  cases Longley you're up.
Dave Longley:  Yeah I would think Bearer token use cases would 
  not be sending the presentation for verification you'd be sending 
  the credentials in the presentation for verification so you'd use 
  the credentials that credential verifying point of the 
  presentation verifying point so I think the request here is if 
  you're going to be verifying presentation in that presentation 
  should have a challenge and domain on it that is signed over and 
  we'll I don't know.
Dave Longley:   If there would be other discussion about.
Dave Longley:  Signature there needs to be or if this will work 
  for all possible signature types that anyone might put on a 
  presentation not sure.
Justin Richer:  Yeah I just wanted to point out that the use of a 
  bearer token with a signed and a separated signed payload does 
  make sense I mean that's if the bearer token is controlling 
  access to the ability to call the endpoint and perform the 
  action.
Justin Richer:  What the bearer token represents this is separate 
  from any signatures in the challenge itself which might prove you 
  know who the holder is who was issued to and other controls and 
  things like that so the separation of authorization of the action 
  being taken and the and the.
Justin Richer:  The veracity of the payload itself is an 
  important design principle.
Manu Sporny:  Thank you Justin Dave.
Dave Longley:  Yeah so those points make sense we do need to 
  decide I think at some point whether verifiers should be 
  verifying only proofs that were created for the purpose of 
  authentication when verifying a presentation which would be 
  different from proofs that were created for the purpose of 
  invoking a capability for example which is what I would think 
  would fall under what Justin's talking about someone's trying to 
  use a bearer token to.
Dave Longley:   Take some kind of action.
Dave Longley:  As opposed to their signing over a presentation to 
  to prove that they control some cryptographic material or 
  something like that.
Manu Sporny:  The right queue is empty unless Justin you put 
  yourself back on.
Justin Richer:  I didn't but then I did but I was still left over 
  anyway yeah I was just going to 2 plus 1 that comment and say 
  that this does of course extend to proof of possession style 
  token presentation like you have in systems like map where you 
  actually may end up with different signatures for different 
  purposes one covering the token and therefore the actions being 
  taken on the API.
Justin Richer:   By itself and.
Justin Richer:  Covering the data for for higher level functions 
  you know the these these things existed different layers and 
  that's to me that's always been one of the most important things 
  about the authorization discussion is not conflating the not 
  conflating the authorization question which is what am I allowed 
  to do here with with.
Justin Richer:   All of the.
Justin Richer:  VC is are meant to answer which is like who does 
  this represent what you know who has testified to this data and 
  all of those other kinds of things they're functioning at 
  different layers and that needs to be clear in the structure.
Manu Sporny:  Yep +12 that okay so this issue specifically is.
Manu Sporny:  Should Challenge and domain be optional on a 
  presentation or is it a must you must include them.
Dave Longley:  Do we have any use case where they would not be 
  included because I think we just talked about if you did not have 
  a signature on your presentation then you then we're not talking 
  about any of the cases regardless of the layering details or 
  anything we're not talking about any of those cases and I don't 
  know that we have a case where anyone would be submitting an 
  unsigned presentation to a verifier endpoint because we tried to 
  rule that out in the previous calls because there were potential 
  security problems with.
Dave Longley:  Telling people to do that and it if it is the 
  case.
Dave Longley:  Always going to be signed we could also 
  potentially say they're always going to have challenges and 
  domains as well and then if we have no use case where that's not 
  true then we can make this requirement.
Joe Andrieu:  In our in our current language around the requests 
  are we we questing distinctly VCS versus V piece.
Manu Sporny:  Could you repeat that question please.
Joe Andrieu:  For a VP that includes a signature so I think 
  there's a distinction here and I don't know if in our request we 
  make that distinction but it seems to me that if there's no 
  challenge then we are necessarily just asking for the VC that 
  seems aligned if there is a challenge then it only makes sense if 
  there's a VP that's going to be signed and returned.
Manu Sporny:  So we do this for the verification stuff don't we.
Manu Sporny:  VP are the the the age verification VPR or the BPR 
  is we have a presentation that is unsigned that contains a 
  credential.
Dave Longley:  Yeah I was going to say that that I think that the 
  new on Sir the difference here tweak to what Joe said is where we 
  whenever we ask for anything in in these protocols at least so 
  far the request is always for a presentation whether or not that 
  presentation needs to be digitally signed is triggered off of 
  whether or not a challenge is included in their request.
Dave Longley:  And you know we could make that more explicit in a 
  note in other ways we wanted to but the idea here is the response 
  is always a presentation if the presentation is not signed and 
  that's acceptable for business you know for the business logic or 
  purposes whatever then the the system receiving that presentation 
  would send the just the credentials for verification not the 
  presentation and so the decision there would be a switch off of.
Dave Longley:   The business law.
Dave Longley:  Before hitting the verifier as opposed to always 
  just sending whatever is received whether it's VC or vp2 to a 
  verifier that makes sense.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so what you're saying is that we do have a use 
  case where you can put a credential in a presentation where the 
  presentation doesn't have a domain a challenge or a signature and 
  it sent over as a part of the exchanges API and then when you win 
  the verifier gets that because for that exchange they know that 
  they never asked for a domain or a challenge internally.
Manu Sporny:   If they would just send them.
Manu Sporny:  The credential from the VP and send the credential 
  to the credential verifier endpoint and get a get a verification 
  there so they would be okay with their not being a signature on 
  it is that what you're.
Dave Longley:  That's right yeah so so the presentation is always 
  envelopes whatever VC is our Center whatever information is sent 
  is always put into a presentation but that presentation may or 
  may not be signed and whether or not that's acceptable as a is a 
  business logic decision.
Manu Sporny:  So you are arguing for Challenge and domain are 
  option.
Dave Longley:  I am not arguing so there's this is orthogonal I'm 
  saying that the verifier endpoint for the part of this has to do 
  with our language is still confusing because we're saying that 
  the presentation is handed to the verifier and as a role but the 
  service that that has the API for verifying this presentation is 
  now going to the is why we we had a diagram with that has like 
  verifier.
Dave Longley:   Applications and other.
Dave Longley:  Other multiple that like that maybe draw from that 
  but.
<joe_andrieu> apps and services
Joe Andrieu:  Absent servers or services.
Dave Longley:  Yeah it's like an app receives the presentation 
  and then the app decides to hit the service and the end point 
  that it hits is if it's okay with an unsigned presentation it 
  hits the credential verify surface and point if it needs that 
  presentation if it requires the presentation we signed it hits 
  the end point for verifying presentation and now even in that 
  model the the endpoint for verifying presentation can require a 
  challenge in domain because.
Dave Longley:   You would not hit that endpoint if you did not 
  require.
Dave Longley:  Presentation to be signed.
Manu Sporny:  So here's the diagram you're saying the verifier 
  app receives a presentation without a signature on it and a 
  credential that does have a signature on it in it then makes a 
  decision on what back-end call to hit the in on the verifier 
  service it either hits credential verify if it was not expecting 
  the presentation to be signed or it hits presentation verify if 
  it was expecting there to be.
Manu Sporny:   Challenge to Maine all that kind of stuff.
Manu Sporny:  That makes sense to me I is anyone else concerned 
  okay with the discussion so far questions concerns.
Manu Sporny:  Thumbs up from Joe.
Manu Sporny:  I know why I was expecting your name to be floating 
  along with that thumbs up so distracting but it's great at the 
  same time okay let's reset this okay so what are we doing here.
Dave Longley:  I don't think we have a use case where the verify 
  presentation endpoint.
Dave Longley:  Doesn't require challenge or domain so we should 
  require it and so we find that we there is a use case where it's 
  not needed.
Joe Andrieu:  The endpoint at the service.
Manu Sporny:  I'm confused primarily because I just read the 
  title here and it doesn't match up with what already was I'm 
  having a hard time connecting these two statements together 
  verifiers must cryptographically signed their challenges that to 
  me says that there needs to be a digital signature on the VPR 
  does anyone else read that in any other way.
Joe Andrieu:  I do I think he's saying that the challenge is 
  should exist and they should be signed jwt's just the challenge.
Manu Sporny:  Does anyone else have that interpretation.
Dave Longley:  I don't but I now see that at that could have been 
  what he was trying to say.
Dave Longley:  I'm not sure what else he would be saying since he 
  says we should at the end of his comments he says and use a JWT 
  so to me that implies at some level he's talking about making the 
  challenge be a jot.
Manu Sporny:  Alright we probably need to worry here to get his 
  intent but we did cover some good ground here.
<kayode_ezike> Can we post a message on that issue to clarify?
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I'm seeing what you're saying now Joe and 
  Dave.
Manu Sporny:  Are we ready to do are we ready to write any kind 
  of PR here.
Manu Sporny:  I know I'm confused.
Dave Longley:  No I don't think we're ready for a PR might need 
  of clarification from Horry and I don't know that I would support 
  making the challenge a jot I don't know that it's necessary to do 
  that and I don't know that it would.
Dave Longley:  Some of the.
Dave Longley:  I mean I haven't thought through the how one would 
  Implement if you used a job making sure in a distributed 
  decentralized system that you did not have replay.
Dave Longley:  You know it might be possible to do that for some 
  systems and maybe not others so easily.
Dave Longley:  In other words if so we have talked about and 
  other issues that we should expose an endpoint on the verifier to 
  create challenges that can be put in the vpr's and then must be 
  presented when must be sent at to the presentation and point of 
  the verifier and that challenge needs to not be reused to prevent 
  replay attack and that.
Dave Longley:  For at least some amount of time and if we're 
  going to add if it seems to me like maybe using a job was 
  supposed to try and make a limit.
Dave Longley:  Make it easier for people to implement that so 
  maybe they didn't need a backing database but that it seems like 
  there's some there's some we need we need more feedback and 
  information for Maury around why we would force this to be a jot.
Manu Sporny:  Okay Joe Europe.
Joe Andrieu:  Shit I lost my thread it seems to me that the 
  challenge is a validation question not a verification question 
  and it seems to me it's the app not the service who should be 
  checking that because I believe the Threat Vector is not between 
  the app in the service but between the app and the holder I think 
  that's where the we are worried about the person in the middle 
  attack.
Joe Andrieu:  So if feels like checking if the issuer is on your 
  white list right your allow list it seems like it's validation 
  not verification but I'm curious what your thought is Dave 
  because you didn't hesitate at treating it as verification.
Dave Longley:  I think there's two components to it one is.
Dave Longley:  I don't think you should even bother checking a 
  signature of a challenge is not valid to begin with that 
  challenge should exist on the verification system it should have 
  been a challenge that was created by that system and the when you 
  hit the verification service and say you know verify the 
  signature it needs to make sure that it was signed over on a 
  challenge that was previously created by that system and then the 
  verified verifier can report back how many times it's.
Dave Longley:   It's already seen that challenge before and.
Dave Longley:  What the verifier app does with the number of 
  times it seemed the challenges of validation question.
Manu Sporny:  Right so we need more information from.
Manu Sporny:  Me to proceed on this item.
Manu Sporny:  Present it's basically a no op we don't have enough 
  information to write a PR.
Manu Sporny:  Okay moving on.
Manu Sporny:  Broken passer test reports caused by changes to 
  this repo.
Manu Sporny:  This should probably be closed.

Topic: Broken paths for test reports caused by changes to this repo

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/193
Manu Sporny:  See Sween split test results.
Manu Sporny:  Let's see so this has to do with test reports this 
  repo doesn't do test reports anymore that's up to the testing 
  stuff so based on that the suggestion is to close this issue 
  because the VC API doesn't include test reports anymore thoughts 
  concerns questions.
Manu Sporny:  Would there be any objections to closing this issue 
  on that basis we don't do test reports from the VC API spec repo 
  anymore.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I'm not 
  looking at the readme at the moment and she says the docks in the 
  readme or not broken so the readme needs editing and in any case.
Manu Sporny:  It does you are right.
Manu Sporny:  Well this thing isn't about the readme I'm pretty 
  sure I read me is really messed up at this point and we need to 
  rewrite Ted we might want to open a new issue on that that the 
  readme needs a significant update.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Oh yeah that 
  seems reasonable.
Manu Sporny:  Okay would you mind.
Manu Sporny:  Opening that issue tab.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I don't have 
  the facility to take that now right now.
Manu Sporny:  Okay can someone do that while I close this issue.
<kayode_ezike> Working on it…
Manu Sporny:  That's that one closed did anyone do the raise for 
  the read me.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I will try to 
  remember later but I'm no guarantees.
Manu Sporny:  I can do it right now here we go the readme.
Dave Longley:  It's it is being done in the chat.
Dave Longley:  Cody said he's working on it.
Manu Sporny:  Great thank you.
Manu Sporny:  All right going back.
Manu Sporny:  Thank you Kayla day.
Manu Sporny:  Let's see where our where wine and why sort pie.
Manu Sporny:  Just recently updated.
<kayode_ezike> Yep, I’ll circle back really soon

Topic: BbsBls sig test fixtures

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/194
Manu Sporny:  All right next one up is the BBS plus test text 
  test fixtures.
Manu Sporny:  Right so if this is true it's wrong I think we 
  updated it the linked data proof stuff too.
Manu Sporny:  Support more than jws but we might not have.
Manu Sporny:   I think we just need to look at this.
Manu Sporny:  Does anyone want to take an action to look at what 
  proof format supports currently what we need to do is make sure 
  that we support the new data Integrity stuff as well as the older 
  jws stuff.
Manu Sporny:  Okay don't have any takers we're just gonna.
Manu Sporny:  Comment doesn't move on any other questions 
  concerns comments on this item.
Manu Sporny:  Alrighty well that needs to be looked into.
Manu Sporny:  And it's clearly wrong if that is what we do.

Topic: Establish and document permanent URLs for specification and resources by version

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/196
Manu Sporny:  K next topic is to establish permanent URLs for 
  specification and Resources by virgin.
Manu Sporny:  So we have not been doing this.
Manu Sporny:  Are in kind of an experimental spec right now there 
  was a desire to version at some point.
Manu Sporny:  And we did.
Manu Sporny:  Thoughts about versioning the spec at this point in 
  time.
Manu Sporny:  Suggestions to do it suggestions against doing it.
Justin Richer: +1
Mike Varley:  It strikes me as though it's a bit early to version 
  the spec at this time I agree versioning is very important but 
  usually you would build that version when there's no clear 
  testability in the new version so I just don't know the were 
  there happy too happy for others to say otherwise but I don't 
  think we're ready at 4:00.
Dave Longley: +1 Not ready yet
Manu Sporny:  Thank you Mike you got A plus one from Justin in 
  chat I think I'm a +1 to what you said as well it feels premature 
  to version something that's a bit of a moving Target another plus 
  one from Dave lonely Okay so.
Manu Sporny:  Discussed this song.
Manu Sporny:  Fun and there were at least four people that 
  suggested that the specification isn't ready to be version time 
  would anyone object to us not versioning the specification at 
  this point in time.
Manu Sporny:  I'm going to close this the next time someone wants 
  to version the specification they should raise an issue and say 
  that they want to version snapshot of it.
Manu Sporny:  Alright that closing.
Manu Sporny:  See we have one minute left not enough time to talk 
  about interoperability profile for the test Suites Mike your 
  Europe for the next batch of issues if you don't mind scanning 
  through them really quickly at some point in the next week and 
  just closing ones where you feel like.
Manu Sporny:   We don't.
Manu Sporny:  Address this anymore there's some issues in here 
  that are like two years old in are clearly you know talk about 
  the test Suite where it's this is clearly not the place to do 
  that anymore anyway just too.
<kayode_ezike> Issue 283 was created as a follow-up to issue 193
Manu Sporny:  Okay that's it for the call today thank you 
  everyone for joining I really appreciate it feel free to take a 
  look at issues raised PRS there are a couple of issues that are 
  ready for PR so if you're looking for you know to contribute to 
  the specification look at the ready for PR markers and see if 
  you're willing to write up some text for that stuff thanks 
  everyone have a great day bye.
