[2022-10-25T17:31:33.325Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	present+
[2022-10-25T17:31:33.326Z]	<nis>	present+
[2022-10-25T17:31:36.636Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-10-25T17:31:45.918Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	present+
[2022-10-25T17:31:58.196Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2022-10-25T17:32:50.546Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-10-25T17:32:50.547Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2022-10-25T17:32:55.814Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_Transmute: We were doing manual spread now.
[2022-10-25T17:32:58.793Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_Transmute: Oh that's right but for the audio.
[2022-10-25T17:33:42.243Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-10-25T17:33:43.240Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: welcome to weekly trace-vocab interop
[2022-10-25T17:33:47.553Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-10-25T17:33:55.585Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: make sure you sign the contributor agreement
[2022-10-25T17:34:17.070Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: today is vocab week, which means we will start with trace-vocab
[2022-10-25T17:34:27.661Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: then we will switch to trace-interop PR's
[2022-10-25T17:34:35.615Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: and then back to trace-vocab issues
[2022-10-25T17:34:40.457Z]	<nis>	ack russel
[2022-10-25T17:34:46.986Z]	<nis>	ack russell
[2022-10-25T17:34:47.869Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	scribe+
[2022-10-25T17:35:03.371Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	https://www.githubstatus.com/incidents/83yg2mk1cx3c?utm_ts=1666718393
[2022-10-25T17:35:17.678Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2022-10-25T17:35:20.270Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ted: Github is having issues will pull requests
[2022-10-25T17:35:21.643Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-10-25T17:35:31.870Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/599
[2022-10-25T17:36:05.257Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: This issue is for changing the certificate postfix to credential based on customer feedback
[2022-10-25T17:36:14.423Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: we have three approvals, any objections?
[2022-10-25T17:36:23.720Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: merging pull 599
[2022-10-25T17:36:25.370Z]	<TallTed>	s|will pull requests|with pull requests and issues -- https://www.githubstatus.com/incidents/83yg2mk1cx3c?utm_ts=1666718393|
[2022-10-25T17:36:32.529Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/597
[2022-10-25T17:36:49.293Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Russell you have 597
[2022-10-25T17:37:08.747Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: This creates organic inspection certificate and handful of related schemas
[2022-10-25T17:37:24.331Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: it took a lot of research but was straightforward to implement
[2022-10-25T17:38:42.109Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: I can add a pull request for the new credential conventions from the previous PR
[2022-10-25T17:38:44.781Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	one comment. seems you have to dig in pretty far to see the USDA organic info. There are several other kinds of organic certification
[2022-10-25T17:38:49.196Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: next we have 598 from Russell
[2022-10-25T17:38:49.753Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/598
[2022-10-25T17:39:12.923Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: this is a wrapper for organic inspection, there is a review after the inspection which references the onsite inspection
[2022-10-25T17:39:20.275Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: any objections to merging 598?
[2022-10-25T17:39:25.888Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Merging 598
[2022-10-25T17:39:31.030Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/600
[2022-10-25T17:39:34.261Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: next one is 600 from "me"
[2022-10-25T17:40:01.863Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: what is does it update steel and eCommerce workflows to add links to the description in the respec document
[2022-10-25T17:40:10.648Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Any objections to merging 600?
[2022-10-25T17:40:36.431Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/601
[2022-10-25T17:40:44.613Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Russell the last PR is 601
[2022-10-25T17:40:56.841Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: I submitted this very recently, will give people time to review it
[2022-10-25T17:41:36.033Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: We only have one approval, we can leave it for next week
[2022-10-25T17:41:59.645Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: PR 600 is still in CI, will come back to it
[2022-10-25T17:42:15.246Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	q+
[2022-10-25T17:42:18.017Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: we have been through the PR's for trace-vocab, moving over to interop
[2022-10-25T17:42:27.095Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Paul you are queued
[2022-10-25T17:42:28.254Z]	<nis>	ack Paul
[2022-10-25T17:42:52.109Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Paul: for the organic certification, is that USDA, applicable to california and other teritories?
[2022-10-25T17:42:56.210Z]	<Orie>	Great question
[2022-10-25T17:43:06.084Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: I think it mostly USDA, I can follow up with Mike to ask about
[2022-10-25T17:43:29.435Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Paul: When there are specific names available, we might want to make that specific to point out the authority
[2022-10-25T17:43:47.429Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: Messur has does a good job on FSMA, we would take a similar approach?
[2022-10-25T17:44:03.443Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: So the prefix would be USDA organic?
[2022-10-25T17:44:30.939Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: If the intention is to make it specific to an authority, we would want to convey that
[2022-10-25T17:44:43.432Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Paul: In the case of the US government, it would probably only need USDA
[2022-10-25T17:45:08.649Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: the objective is not for it to be only in US, but to be clear where it is meeting the requirements for governments
[2022-10-25T17:45:24.655Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: yeah. this is for foreign imports and international processes
[2022-10-25T17:45:35.194Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: I will make that change and ask Mike about it
[2022-10-25T17:45:37.048Z]	<nis>	q?
[2022-10-25T17:45:47.028Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/451
[2022-10-25T17:45:49.356Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: let's move onto PR's on trace-interop
[2022-10-25T17:45:58.599Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: first one is 451 and this is from me
[2022-10-25T17:46:18.254Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: this is addressing the different kinds of presentations that we support and it was outdated
[2022-10-25T17:46:34.003Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: whether it has been properly addressed it up for you to decide
[2022-10-25T17:46:45.879Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: we have one approval, otherwise we will need to give it more time
[2022-10-25T17:47:19.806Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Any objections to merging 451?
[2022-10-25T17:47:32.907Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: there is one more, this is from Isaac, he is not on the call
[2022-10-25T17:47:43.523Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: this is about conflicting tests on conformance and interop
[2022-10-25T17:48:01.329Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: who approved it, can you elaborate on how it was done?
[2022-10-25T17:48:22.656Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: Chris is not here, normally we would hear from him
[2022-10-25T17:48:40.337Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: He's only touched the workflow instance join, which makes it isolated
[2022-10-25T17:48:58.978Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: It has three approves, any objects to merging 452?
[2022-10-25T17:49:04.562Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Merging 452
[2022-10-25T17:49:11.383Z]	<nis>	ack Russell
[2022-10-25T17:49:41.589Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: Separate thing, i was looking at changing organic certificate to credential
[2022-10-25T17:50:03.239Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: Would we want to change CTPAT Certificate to CTPAT credential?
[2022-10-25T17:50:15.135Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2022-10-25T17:50:22.148Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: No, I think that's the specific name of the credential in this case, similar to Certification of Origin
[2022-10-25T17:50:59.983Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/393
[2022-10-25T17:51:17.268Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: moving onto issues. The first is follow up with QDT
[2022-10-25T17:51:36.875Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: My suggestion there was to close that, the question is was QDT help us with various steel tests?
[2022-10-25T17:51:48.695Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: but the answer is "no", it's about to units and nothing else
[2022-10-25T17:52:06.974Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: my recommendation is to close out that ticket and follow up tickets
[2022-10-25T17:52:14.609Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Orie this is your ticket
[2022-10-25T17:52:21.899Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: We can close it on the call right now
[2022-10-25T17:52:25.554Z]	<TallTed>	+1 close 393 ... even better if could get a better title
[2022-10-25T17:52:26.266Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/594
[2022-10-25T17:52:29.363Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: And then we should talk about 594
[2022-10-25T17:52:47.602Z]	<Orie>	ISO : (
[2022-10-25T17:52:55.378Z]	<Orie>	impossible to read the tests.
[2022-10-25T17:52:56.771Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: What I then did was poked around where the standard bodies that do these tests, and also ISO
[2022-10-25T17:53:00.524Z]	<nis>	https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso:6892:-1:ed-3:v1:en
[2022-10-25T17:53:04.233Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: If you follow this link
[2022-10-25T17:53:05.075Z]	<Orie>	have to pay for them... but they are defined by ISO.
[2022-10-25T17:53:12.826Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: the link resolves to something reasonable
[2022-10-25T17:53:13.938Z]	<Orie>	better than anywhere else
[2022-10-25T17:53:26.569Z]	<Orie>	I am a +1 to refering to ISO when we can.
[2022-10-25T17:53:35.266Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: We should not action on that any further, but pointing out a different source for the previous issue
[2022-10-25T17:53:38.710Z]	<Orie>	despite not loving ISO's transparency model.
[2022-10-25T17:53:40.781Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/204
[2022-10-25T17:53:51.145Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: And the final one was measurement, which were related
[2022-10-25T17:54:34.013Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: I suggest we use the UN measurement, which is pretty applicable to what we need
[2022-10-25T17:55:03.428Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: I agree, I previously made measurements from schema.org, we should use the UN instead of schema.org
[2022-10-25T17:55:12.557Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: How do we move the issue forward?
[2022-10-25T17:55:26.684Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: Show the nquads as they are used today, and then show the updated nquads
[2022-10-25T17:55:35.040Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: And if people like that we can move the issue forward
[2022-10-25T17:55:47.856Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: That's how we should approach any semantic example issues
[2022-10-25T17:55:51.306Z]	<Orie>	We can use v.jsld.org to help argue on the information representations if we want.
[2022-10-25T17:55:53.892Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?page=1&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2022-10-25T17:56:00.861Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: wanted to bring those up first since i spent time on them
[2022-10-25T17:56:05.083Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/313
[2022-10-25T17:56:19.770Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: issue 313. Feels like we discussed this not long ago
[2022-10-25T17:56:42.812Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Suggestion is to bump this up to 0.1 so we're not 0.0, and then there is talk about roadmaps
[2022-10-25T17:56:52.479Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: This one is pending PR any comments on 313?
[2022-10-25T17:57:29.192Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: I volunteer to be assigned to this
[2022-10-25T17:57:44.112Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/600
[2022-10-25T17:57:45.321Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: next is 350, which is what I'm addressing on PR 600
[2022-10-25T17:58:03.750Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: I suggest we merge 600 and then close 350
[2022-10-25T17:58:22.101Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: okay, merging 600 and closing issue 350
[2022-10-25T17:58:23.725Z]	<Orie>	600 looks awesome!
[2022-10-25T17:58:33.281Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/353
[2022-10-25T17:58:36.119Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Next is issue 353
[2022-10-25T17:58:43.940Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Orie this is your issue AWS test suite
[2022-10-25T17:59:01.288Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: I can give an update on this, this test suite has continued to gain update
[2022-10-25T17:59:29.228Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: The VS JWT and Json web signature 2020 tests are likely to be made out of date by the W3C verifiable credentials working group
[2022-10-25T17:59:48.134Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: I think this is better handed with the verifiable credential test suite with examples
[2022-10-25T18:00:10.185Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/344
[2022-10-25T18:00:22.470Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: And i think the complicated examples in the verifiable credential working group would be beneficial, so i will add a comment on the issue
[2022-10-25T18:00:30.109Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: 344 Orie this is you
[2022-10-25T18:00:44.894Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: So we're looking at 344
[2022-10-25T18:01:07.058Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: This is related to ongoing conversations in the verifiable credentials working group about ongoing expansions
[2022-10-25T18:01:27.923Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: the proposal in the verifiable credential working group is taking about how undefined terms are handled
[2022-10-25T18:01:41.501Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: If verifiable credentials do this for ts, then we wouldn't need to do it
[2022-10-25T18:01:55.889Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: We should link this issue to them to get visibility on it
[2022-10-25T18:02:13.996Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/521
[2022-10-25T18:02:18.009Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: I don't think there is an action item on our side, we can see how the working group resolves this problem
[2022-10-25T18:02:27.277Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Next is 521, this is also from Orie
[2022-10-25T18:03:13.714Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: Traceable presentations recipient, we don't have a way to represent the recipient
[2022-10-25T18:03:23.074Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: The suggestion here is to add a recipient
[2022-10-25T18:03:35.507Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: Will cross link this to the working group
[2022-10-25T18:03:58.247Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/526
[2022-10-25T18:04:04.271Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: next is 526, from Ted
[2022-10-25T18:04:42.961Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ted: I think it's ready for PR and hopefully self evident
[2022-10-25T18:05:15.089Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ted: We need a diff and then an intelligent choice of which changes are applied to the readme
[2022-10-25T18:05:34.666Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/357
[2022-10-25T18:05:36.687Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Next is 357
[2022-10-25T18:05:45.128Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	present-
[2022-10-25T18:07:11.748Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/366
[2022-10-25T18:07:15.926Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: This is for having the images be paired with the credential, and updating the CD for this
[2022-10-25T18:07:36.538Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Next issue is 366 workflow examples to demonstrate events
[2022-10-25T18:08:00.990Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: Paul just dropped off, this would have been something for him to comment on
[2022-10-25T18:08:10.275Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/369
[2022-10-25T18:08:32.294Z]	<TallTed>	tangent -- who maintains the ccgbot?  it should never do a `present-` because the minutes don't record "partial" attendance; you're either here for (some of) the meeting, or you're not (at all).
[2022-10-25T18:08:44.699Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: I think the action item here is to remove these
[2022-10-25T18:08:55.832Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: We will make an ticket internally to address that
[2022-10-25T18:08:57.497Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/389
[2022-10-25T18:09:02.827Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Next one is from Mike
[2022-10-25T18:09:08.330Z]	<Orie>	TallTed I think Manu or MikeP.
[2022-10-25T18:09:34.736Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Russell do you know anything about this
[2022-10-25T18:09:44.307Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: This is a priority that I am working on
[2022-10-25T18:09:56.460Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Russell, can you assign yourself to this issue?
[2022-10-25T18:10:10.356Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: I already assigned you, can I add a 'Ready for PR' label to this?
[2022-10-25T18:10:20.181Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: Yes, that makes sense
[2022-10-25T18:10:24.708Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/399
[2022-10-25T18:10:39.812Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Next is 399, Build context as a github/npm package
[2022-10-25T18:11:11.568Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: Do we want to do this?
[2022-10-25T18:11:34.678Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: I dont think we should publish this, it's a script for a niche use-case
[2022-10-25T18:11:53.405Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/528
[2022-10-25T18:12:04.396Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: And if people want that script they can grab the script from this repo, adpapt and run it
[2022-10-25T18:13:42.995Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Issue 528 is about Entity.entityType
[2022-10-25T18:14:24.276Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: We defined this, so it should be addressed
[2022-10-25T18:14:46.016Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/527
[2022-10-25T18:14:49.613Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: Moving on to 527
[2022-10-25T18:15:44.608Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: Right now our JSON-LD does not handle oneOf from schemas
[2022-10-25T18:15:57.162Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: I'm not sure how we would handle this in @context
[2022-10-25T18:16:44.733Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ted: It seems to be relevant, and rather than fixing our JSON-LD predecessor to address the construct, we're updating our schemas to not use the construct
[2022-10-25T18:17:57.244Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: What would the shape of the `@context` need to look like is something I don't understand
[2022-10-25T18:18:51.983Z]	<nis>	q?
[2022-10-25T18:19:13.998Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ted: We had existing examples for JSON schema, oneOf does not exist in @context
[2022-10-25T18:19:29.307Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ted: It's kind of like domain and range and domain includes and range include, kind of
[2022-10-25T18:19:36.526Z]	<Orie>	sry, i had to afk
[2022-10-25T18:19:38.968Z]	<Orie>	randomly
[2022-10-25T18:19:53.392Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/527
[2022-10-25T18:20:12.597Z]	<TallTed>	s/domain includes and range include/domainIncludes and rangeIncludes/
[2022-10-25T18:21:25.501Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-10-25T18:21:37.645Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ben: To support JSON-LD oneOf in JSON-SCHEMA, what would the @context look like?
[2022-10-25T18:22:05.104Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: I don't know, i think this is a case where until you create it
[2022-10-25T18:22:44.269Z]	<nis>	q+
[2022-10-25T18:22:51.006Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: The primary guidance we leave on this issue is: if you can implement this is your code and suggest a solution
[2022-10-25T18:23:23.305Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ted: I'm concerned with throwing out a language feature because the tooling does not support it
[2022-10-25T18:23:27.023Z]	<Orie>	+1 Ted
[2022-10-25T18:23:35.347Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	+1 Ted
[2022-10-25T18:23:57.782Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ted: Anyone can add information on the issue so that we can have a better handle on this when it comes up again
[2022-10-25T18:24:01.800Z]	<nis>	ack nis
[2022-10-25T18:24:24.491Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: This is similar to the case of `allOf` that I also want to use
[2022-10-25T18:24:46.528Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: We're using json-schema and JSON-ld which means we need to use the lowest common denominator
[2022-10-25T18:25:23.710Z]	<Orie>	+1 Ted, I really like the domain and range comment/
[2022-10-25T18:25:28.691Z]	<Orie>	we need that on the issue.
[2022-10-25T18:25:35.578Z]	<Orie>	thats a hint at a path forward
[2022-10-25T18:25:51.723Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ted: I think bringining allOf complicates the use-case in a single way. If you use it then any any entity that is included also is a member of the class
[2022-10-25T18:26:05.897Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: I agree, need to have time to build it for how to implement it properly
[2022-10-25T18:26:16.747Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ted: I can help with brain storming, but I am not a code
[2022-10-25T18:26:42.399Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Orie: If you get on the issue and rant about domain and range and how it relates to anyOf and allOf, and I might be able to parse that
[2022-10-25T18:26:44.861Z]	<Orie>	We need domain and range comments on https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/527
[2022-10-25T18:26:59.653Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: can i assign you on the issue?
[2022-10-25T18:27:08.441Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Ted: Okay, that's no problem at all
[2022-10-25T18:27:50.919Z]	<Orie>	Thank you!
[2022-10-25T18:28:07.491Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Nis: that was great, thank you for coming
[2022-10-25T18:28:19.416Z]	<Ben_Transmute>	Russell: I can post minutes
