Thanks to Benjamin Collins and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-02-28-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-02-28-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-02-28

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Feb&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Benjamin Collins and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Benjamin Collins, Chris Abernethy, Orie Steele, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Paul 
  Dietrich GS1, Russell Hofvendahl, Ted Thibodeau

Benjamin Collins is scribing.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Chris Abernethy:  Let's start with trace-vocab and begin with 
  pull requests [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/696
Chris Abernethy:  Starting with the oldest, starting with 696 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy:  This is from Russel, and adds Agricultural 
  inspection. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  The requested changes that I had were around 
  updating the examples, and then pointing to UNC as opposed to 
  defining our own. And I think that was resolved [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy:  If there are no objects, I'll go ahead and 
  merge [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/698
Chris Abernethy:  Next is 698 from Russel. [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  I have change requests on this. I reviewed again, 
  part of it is removing fields from the common organization 
  schema. There is also an external identifiers part which is not 
  aligned with RDF best practices [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Orie Steele:  I don't believe we should be using either of this, 
  and should use schema.org [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  We can split the uncontroversial pieces from the 
  controversial pieces and submit that as different PR's [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele: https://schema.org/identifier
<orie> ```
Benjamin Collins: Russel: schema.org has the identifier, but the 
  issue i had was I couldn't find an object that had everything 
  that i needed. I need an array of identifier values
Orie Steele:  There is the object, array polymorphism in RDF. If 
  you see identifier is type property value. You can make the value 
  side an array, and because of how RDF gets processed it's all the 
  same. I think if this works, it would be better to use this. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Benjamin Collins: Russel: I don't just have property id and 
  value, it also has url. Does that change anything?
Orie Steele:  The examples you;ve shown me don't have url. You 
  only had name/value pairs [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
<orie> See the term
Orie Steele: https://schema.org/PropertyValue
Benjamin Collins: Russel: External Identifier has name, value and 
  uri. And I was replacing all of the individual identifiers with 
  these three.
Orie Steele:  Can you look at the property value type and see if 
  that would meet your use case? [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Chris Abernethy:  I think that's a good point to carry that 
  offline [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/703
Benjamin Collins:  What this PR does is that it adds credential 
  schema to verifiable business card as a proof of concept [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/491
Benjamin Collins:  It creates vbc as a single schema file that 
  can be used to check if the schema is valid or not [scribe assist 
  by Benjamin Collins]
Benjamin Collins:  It needs an update on the proof citation, and 
  i'll merge it once it's been addressed [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/577
Chris Abernethy:  For trace-interop we only have one pull request 
  from Mike, but it's in draft. so we will come back to it once it 
  is open [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy:  This is from Vlad, can we get Vlad to attend 
  these meetings? [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/271
Orie Steele:  I think we need to add a comment to say, the action 
  item wasn't understood and encourage him to atten [scribe assist 
  by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  It seems like the last comment is from Vlad to do 
  the work on the issue that has been re-opened. [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/578
Chris Abernethy:  The next issue is from Vlad as well [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/270
Chris Abernethy:  This one is about wrong linked data mapping, it 
  looks like Orie and Ted have participated on this one [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  In this issue there are several places where we're 
  using @id or @type incorrectly. We can't really fix this in the 
  abstract the way the issue is described. [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  If there are smaller specific issues we can make 
  smaller issues, these can be addressed for specific problems. But 
  a generally "fix all of the things" issue is not very helpful. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy:  Can we add a "Pending Close" on this? [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Ted Thibodeau:  I think we can make a list of a checklist to 
  address the issues [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  We can do that now, where we need to go through the 
  issue and make a list of what specific changes we need to be 
  made. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
<orie> issues should be "actionable" "made actionable" or 
  "closed"
<orie> its not an issue I would be pick.
Benjamin Collins:  We don't want to have abstract suggestions, we 
  want actionable items whether that is one issue or multiple. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Ted Thibodeau:  I don't think we should drop the issue, either we 
  are interested in the files or we're not [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  This is way too big for one person, we would 
  need to split this out into smaller segments that could be picked 
  up and tackled by multiple people. But I don't think it can be 
  worked on in the current state. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Chris Abernethy:  I propose we need someone to split this into 
  smaller work loads. Does that sounds acceptable? [scribe assist 
  by Benjamin Collins]
Benjamin Collins:  I think that splitting up the work is a heavy 
  lift on it's own [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Orie Steele:  We could have a dedicated call to address this 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think there are some amount of segments 
  that the issue could be broken into. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
<orie> sry I have to drop now
Chris Abernethy:  I'm going to make a note to say that's what 
  needs to happen, and we can move on. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/571
Benjamin Collins: Summary: The issue on the GitHub repository of 
  the W3C Credentials Community Group (CCG) is a discussion about 
  the Traceability Vocabulary Specification, specifically regarding 
  the use of the term “verifier” in the document.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I called out that a specific PR does not 
  address 571. I think this is saying we have multiple identifiers 
  that are all pointing to schema.org/identifier. But i'm trying to 
  see what the solution would be. [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/575
Ted Thibodeau:  I think this is more of the typing confusion. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Benjamin Collins: Summary: The issue on the GitHub repository of 
  the W3C Credentials Community Group (CCG) is a discussion about 
  the Traceability Vocabulary Specification, specifically regarding 
  the use of the term “attestor” in the document.
Chris Abernethy:  What would be a good next step on this issue? 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Ted Thibodeau:  I think it would be writing the yml correctly. 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Benjamin Collins: https://www.schema.org/value- 500
Benjamin Collins: https://www.schema.org/value - 1500
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/586
Benjamin Collins:  I think the issue here is that we want a 
  suggestion for what '@id" Vlad suggests [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/152
Benjamin Collins:  For this issue we want to make sure incorrect 
  schemas would fail CI and I think we addressed this [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy:  Looks like we added pending close in October, 
  if no one objects we can close [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/153
Chris Abernethy:  This is another one from Ted [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Ted Thibodeau:  This can be closed [scribe assist by Benjamin 
  Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/587
Chris Abernethy:  This is from me, are we still using Lerna? 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Benjamin Collins:  I think we still have lerna lurking in 
  package.json files. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/185
Chris Abernethy:  This has pending close from October, so closing 
  now. [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/160
Chris Abernethy:  We added a pending close on this one as well 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Ted Thibodeau:  Good enough [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/416
Benjamin Collins:  Previously we had "Certificate" as a postfix 
  and we've moved to "Credential" as a postfix, so this can be 
  closed [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/464
Benjamin Collins:  This might have been done and we didn't link 
  the issue. I suggest marking as closed. [scribe assist by 
  Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/379
Benjamin Collins: Crhis: I think the issue here was around 
  canonicalization for linked data proofs. It might not matter as 
  much if we sign the JSON directly.
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/593
Ted Thibodeau:  I don't think we can tell other people how large 
  their data can be, but we can make technical recomendations 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Benjamin Collins:  For 593 the suggestion is that we would want 
  to use `datetime` for schema validation for properties like 
  `issuedAt` [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/594
Benjamin Collins:  And I think Ted brings up a valid point that 
  the description should be updated in those situations as well 
  [scribe assist by Benjamin Collins]
Chris Abernethy:  Thanks everybody and see you next week. [scribe 
  assist by Benjamin Collins]
