[2020-06-09T15:59:31.561Z]	<jonathan_holt>	present+ jonathan_holt
[2020-06-09T16:00:02.399Z]	<Orie_>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:00:20.144Z]	<burn>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:00:34.861Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:00:41.571Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:00:43.473Z]	<rhiaro>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:01:33.758Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:02:33.172Z]	<identitywoman_>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:02:52.248Z]	<wayne>	hear you great
[2020-06-09T16:03:02.227Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:03:20.079Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:04:15.335Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:07:04.791Z]	<chriswinc>	scribe+
[2020-06-09T16:07:41.600Z]	<chriswinc>	JoeAndrieu: Introductions
[2020-06-09T16:08:16.188Z]	<chriswinc>	Jeff Stone and Nathan representing from Learning Economy
[2020-06-09T16:08:32.999Z]	<chriswinc>	... reintroductions
[2020-06-09T16:08:51.024Z]	<adamjlemmon>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:09:09.415Z]	<Jacksohne>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:09:28.666Z]	<chriswinc>	... Adam Lemmon from Emergence Tech
[2020-06-09T16:09:42.610Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-06-09T16:09:42.703Z]	<chriswinc>	... Announcements
[2020-06-09T16:10:09.435Z]	<chriswinc>	... Identiverse is now virtual over several weeks
[2020-06-09T16:10:09.622Z]	<identitywoman_>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:10:46.921Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack identitywoman_
[2020-06-09T16:10:49.067Z]	<bernard>	hel^
[2020-06-09T16:11:07.127Z]	<chriswinc>	identitywoman: DIF is hosting an intro next week
[2020-06-09T16:11:32.871Z]	<chriswinc>	... link will be posted to IRC
[2020-06-09T16:11:43.143Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:12:17.936Z]	<by_caballero>	https://www.eventbrite.com/e/dif-face-to-face-virtual-tickets-106632396368
[2020-06-09T16:12:44.316Z]	<chriswinc>	Lucy_Yang: Representing CCI. Supporting privacy preserving covid credentials
[2020-06-09T16:13:00.405Z]	<Lucy_Yang>	https://www.covidcreds.com/
[2020-06-09T16:13:13.621Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-06-09T16:13:16.212Z]	<Lucy_Yang>	Haven't updated everything, but more info will come soon.
[2020-06-09T16:13:25.383Z]	<chriswinc>	JoeAndrieu: Action items
[2020-06-09T16:13:25.661Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-06-09T16:13:31.923Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:13:42.888Z]	<ChristopherA>	topic: co-chair election
[2020-06-09T16:13:43.542Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-06-09T16:14:12.145Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: Voting system details are being finalized. Hope email will be sent out today.
[2020-06-09T16:14:50.541Z]	<kezike>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:15:38.256Z]	<chriswinc>	... Votes will be tallied by volunteers and results published the next week
[2020-06-09T16:15:39.172Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-06-09T16:15:53.286Z]	<tayken_>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:16:16.641Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://transmute-industries.github.io/universal-wallet/
[2020-06-09T16:16:27.614Z]	<chriswinc>	JoeAndrieu: Universal Wallets presentation from Orie @ Transmute
[2020-06-09T16:16:30.941Z]	<Orie_>	https://transmute-industries.github.io/universal-wallet/
[2020-06-09T16:16:35.602Z]	<Orie_>	https://nfc.did.ai/nxp?seed=7052adea8f9823817065456ecad5bf24dcd31a698f7bc9a0b5fc170849af4226
[2020-06-09T16:16:54.392Z]	<chriswinc>	Orie: Spec and demo links above
[2020-06-09T16:17:16.736Z]	<chriswinc>	... Would like to speak for a bit and then open up for questions
[2020-06-09T16:18:12.527Z]	<chriswinc>	... A number of demos are used and all of them use various services (e.g. key storage)
[2020-06-09T16:18:29.163Z]	<chriswinc>	... interoperable wallets inevitably come up
[2020-06-09T16:19:01.515Z]	<chriswinc>	... the goal is to create a data model and abstract interface for wallets
[2020-06-09T16:20:14.534Z]	<chriswinc>	... trying to create a data model that accounts for how these identifiers, currencies, etc are all related
[2020-06-09T16:20:27.225Z]	<chriswinc>	... and how to abstract for interop
[2020-06-09T16:21:09.508Z]	<chriswinc>	... Data cannot be moved from one system to another is we don't have a common data model
[2020-06-09T16:21:48.282Z]	<chriswinc>	... reference implementation for one use case to show how this would work
[2020-06-09T16:22:20.928Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:22:31.665Z]	<chriswinc>	... trying to build a vocabulary vs creating new and potentially duplicate data models
[2020-06-09T16:22:33.762Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-06-09T16:22:51.665Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://transmute-industries.github.io/universal-wallet/
[2020-06-09T16:23:03.470Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://github.com/transmute-industries/universal-wallet/
[2020-06-09T16:23:29.332Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/BlockchainCommons/Research
[2020-06-09T16:23:32.381Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: Some Bitcoin and Ethereum wallet providers trying at the base level (e.g. what is a seed) to come to agreement
[2020-06-09T16:24:07.086Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rwot9-prague/blob/master/topics-and-advance-readings/whats-wallet.md
[2020-06-09T16:24:37.543Z]	<chriswinc>	... Could the community, or DIF tackle some of the naming issues? RWOT link above for What is a Wallet?
[2020-06-09T16:25:03.331Z]	<Orie_>	DIF did tackle glossary terminology a little while ago... not sure if there is a link that can be entered for future readers.
[2020-06-09T16:25:07.333Z]	<chriswinc>	... Arrows within these models also need to be named
[2020-06-09T16:25:44.683Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-06-09T16:25:50.561Z]	<chriswinc>	... starting small with vocabulary. Tech interop (e.g. CBOR) will come later
[2020-06-09T16:26:03.068Z]	<wayne>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:26:30.147Z]	<chriswinc>	JoeAndrieu: Where to you see this going from here Orie?
[2020-06-09T16:27:07.790Z]	<chriswinc>	Orie: Trying to gather interest from CCG and DIF to support this initiative
[2020-06-09T16:27:21.202Z]	<Margo>	Re: Orie's comment about DIF glossary work, here is that presentation from recent work include wallet, credential, agent ecosystem analysis https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1gIEPmbtLNVuaHxdawGBe6ZwFqP43m7iqmIEeUUm3sjI/edit#slide=id.g752184a474_0_4
[2020-06-09T16:28:00.487Z]	<ChristopherA>	I'd like to see this diagram updated: https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rwot9-prague/blob/master/topics-and-advance-readings/media/ExpandedDecentralizedIdentityNetworkComponents.png
[2020-06-09T16:28:02.289Z]	<chriswinc>	... If there is support then let's come together. Supporting a work item is preferred.
[2020-06-09T16:28:06.149Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:28:11.966Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack wayne
[2020-06-09T16:28:41.985Z]	<chriswinc>	wayne: This is a wallet interoperability initiative?
[2020-06-09T16:28:48.461Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:28:50.312Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-09T16:29:05.369Z]	<kimhd>	q+ to add support from educational community
[2020-06-09T16:29:15.801Z]	<chriswinc>	Orie: Yes, import/export representations for wallets to be used together
[2020-06-09T16:29:46.223Z]	<chriswinc>	wayne: Naming topic, could we modify the name "Universal Wallet?"
[2020-06-09T16:30:00.784Z]	<chriswinc>	... what about porting key pairs from one wallet to another
[2020-06-09T16:30:31.010Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2020-06-09T16:30:50.146Z]	<brent>	This may be valuable information for a way that part of the community thinks about wallets: https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/tree/master/concepts/0050-wallets
[2020-06-09T16:30:53.232Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+ to ask about webkms
[2020-06-09T16:30:56.851Z]	<chriswinc>	Orie: Moving keys is a risk but it is a thing that the community does now. Vocabulary can help clarify what moving keys means and what the risks are.
[2020-06-09T16:31:03.871Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-06-09T16:31:08.842Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-06-09T16:31:58.570Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: When developing the BTCR wallet and the underlying BTC wallet, we learned a number of things (e.g. Air Gap)
[2020-06-09T16:32:27.430Z]	<chriswinc>	... The diagram is missing a number of pieces such as Shamir and revocation
[2020-06-09T16:32:36.783Z]	<brent>	also related: https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/tree/master/concepts/0051-dkms
[2020-06-09T16:32:50.534Z]	<Orie_>	its definitely a hard problem... thats why we are tackling it :)
[2020-06-09T16:33:14.673Z]	<chriswinc>	... It turns out this is a difficult problem across all of the crypto wallet families. We don't have representation from these groups here as well.
[2020-06-09T16:33:20.488Z]	<Orie_>	I have opened this issue targeting hyperledger interoperability: https://github.com/transmute-industries/universal-wallet/issues/9
[2020-06-09T16:33:55.375Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-06-09T16:34:18.321Z]	<Orie_>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:34:24.402Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack kimhd
[2020-06-09T16:34:36.346Z]	<chriswinc>	... need group to agree so we don't do the work but then everyone just continues with their own wallet
[2020-06-09T16:35:05.603Z]	<chriswinc>	kimhd: support from the educational credential side as there are currently a lot of wallets in the wild
[2020-06-09T16:35:32.172Z]	<tayken_>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:35:35.201Z]	<Orie_>	an we get a link to ILR wrapper?
[2020-06-09T16:35:50.142Z]	<chriswinc>	... ILR, which is a type of VC, is focused on discoverability
[2020-06-09T16:36:03.944Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	I don't know if the ILR paper is published yet
[2020-06-09T16:36:43.993Z]	<chriswinc>	... there will be interest to integrate with a number of identity providers
[2020-06-09T16:36:51.282Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-06-09T16:37:23.387Z]	<chriswinc>	... Possibly take this on in the VC EDU Taskforce
[2020-06-09T16:37:56.627Z]	<chriswinc>	... usability for the learner is also critical, since the wallet is usually the entry point into this tech
[2020-06-09T16:38:12.681Z]	<Orie_>	Here is another UI demo which attempts to expose some usable UX for this: https://material-did.com/?path=/story/components-universal-wallet-wallet--unlocked
[2020-06-09T16:38:14.545Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-06-09T16:38:27.862Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	<Margo> Re: Orie's comment about DIF glossary work, here is that presentation from recent work include wallet, credential, agent ecosystem analysis https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1gIEPmbtLNVuaHxdawGBe6ZwFqP43m7iqmIEeUUm3sjI/edit#slide=id.g752184a474_0_4
[2020-06-09T16:38:38.655Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	<brent> This may be valuable information for a way that part of the community thinks about wallets: https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/tree/master/concepts/0050-wallets
[2020-06-09T16:38:45.835Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	<brent> also related: https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/tree/master/concepts/0051-dkms
[2020-06-09T16:38:58.061Z]	<chriswinc>	JoeAndrieu: Margo and Brent added links for parts of the conversation above
[2020-06-09T16:39:40.142Z]	<chriswinc>	... ILR was light on wallet. This Transmute spec is very helpful to go deeper
[2020-06-09T16:40:02.792Z]	<tayken_>	q-
[2020-06-09T16:40:13.895Z]	<chriswinc>	... about webkms; the spec mentions this. Can you speak to how webkms fits in?
[2020-06-09T16:40:14.034Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack Orie_
[2020-06-09T16:40:21.335Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:40:41.762Z]	<chriswinc>	Orie: Bottom line, don't move private keys if you do not need to. Generate keys on the device and authorize them
[2020-06-09T16:40:58.623Z]	<chriswinc>	... webkms is meant to hold keys behind a web interface
[2020-06-09T16:41:18.328Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+ ChristopherA to speak to Wyoming laws about keys
[2020-06-09T16:41:57.812Z]	<chriswinc>	... keys mentioned in a wallet could be present in a secure enclave or other method such as webkms.
[2020-06-09T16:42:43.264Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-06-09T16:42:48.706Z]	<chriswinc>	JoeAndrieu: similarity to Bitcoin. Wallets do not hold your Bitcoins
[2020-06-09T16:43:19.764Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/blockchainCommons/bc-lethekit
[2020-06-09T16:43:40.334Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: We are increasingly finding that we want to use device differences to separate private keys. For example, link provided.
[2020-06-09T16:43:45.312Z]	<tayken_>	Have to hop off but +1 to supporting edu spec and/or wg. Interested in delineating crypto and edu wallet, which is perhaps counter to “universal”
[2020-06-09T16:44:00.362Z]	<Balazs>	+present
[2020-06-09T16:44:17.084Z]	<chriswinc>	... The master key is never on the device which is on the network
[2020-06-09T16:45:10.242Z]	<ChristopherA>	ur:crypto-hdkey/5vql2q6cyyqw3uewwg77eaq9rth6er3vj0yutvs5xyup0ndsrg2ffwgheppkkdgytqsgw00ls8qz75jky073legk06kr54dqf80r6v2tkshwyflla5ma2zqwu4mr8
[2020-06-09T16:45:14.471Z]	<chriswinc>	... network device is separate from the storage device. This doesn't work for all use cases but should be considered
[2020-06-09T16:45:39.042Z]	<chriswinc>	... CBOR example which is optimized for QR codes
[2020-06-09T16:46:07.822Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-06-09T16:46:13.161Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q-
[2020-06-09T16:46:23.801Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-09T16:46:52.646Z]	<chriswinc>	... Wyoming laws with regards to private keys - Stockholders can now be represented by keys. Corporate records can now be stored on chain.
[2020-06-09T16:47:26.161Z]	<chriswinc>	... may also add capability for the Secretary of State to issue civic records
[2020-06-09T16:48:11.182Z]	<chriswinc>	... a bill which protects private keys from compelled disclosure also introduced. Should be taken up in next legislative session.
[2020-06-09T16:49:19.162Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-06-09T16:49:20.063Z]	<chriswinc>	 JoeAndrieu: for keys to perform their magic, they need to be kept private
[2020-06-09T16:49:22.142Z]	<Orie_>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:49:28.843Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack Orie_
[2020-06-09T16:49:48.745Z]	<ChristopherA>	This is the private key bill in Wyoming: https://wyoleg.gov/Legislation/2020/HB0041
[2020-06-09T16:50:17.884Z]	<chriswinc>	Orie: A note about the bar we are trying to meet. Indy credentials format for example needs to be included
[2020-06-09T16:50:20.530Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:50:26.505Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:51:18.561Z]	<chriswinc>	... software implementers and standards groups need strong collaboration from the separate groups
[2020-06-09T16:51:46.201Z]	<chriswinc>	... If you represent a community that you feel is not well represented, please reach out
[2020-06-09T16:51:57.773Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-06-09T16:52:45.563Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: There are a lot of assumptions in crypto currency wallets that make some assumptions that can cause problems
[2020-06-09T16:53:21.848Z]	<chriswinc>	... for example, automated account creation vs answering a request from the netwok
[2020-06-09T16:53:29.645Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-09T16:53:31.055Z]	<chriswinc>	s/netwok/network
[2020-06-09T16:54:07.822Z]	<Orie_>	+1 to the value of reference implementations
[2020-06-09T16:54:19.826Z]	<Orie_>	especially multiple ones in different languages
[2020-06-09T16:54:22.371Z]	<chriswinc>	... some things are only discovered when implementing
[2020-06-09T16:54:22.412Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-06-09T16:54:31.849Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack jonathan_holt
[2020-06-09T16:54:49.204Z]	<chriswinc>	jonathan_holt: caution to separate key management from wallet management
[2020-06-09T16:54:55.647Z]	<ChristopherA>	+1 I think there is a lot of collisions here
[2020-06-09T16:55:30.785Z]	<ChristopherA>	I also want to separate keys from accounts from wallets
[2020-06-09T16:55:31.856Z]	<kimhd>	I'd be interested in helping untangle key/credential management. The EDU use cases will force that along
[2020-06-09T16:55:31.902Z]	<Orie_>	q+ to discuss meta dat
[2020-06-09T16:55:42.521Z]	<chriswinc>	... could be problematic for example, associating keys to the correct accounts within the wallet
[2020-06-09T16:55:54.907Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack Orie_
[2020-06-09T16:55:58.894Z]	<ChristopherA>	keys, accounts, credentials, wallet
[2020-06-09T16:56:13.687Z]	<wayne>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:56:19.641Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-06-09T16:56:20.466Z]	<chriswinc>	Orie: great point, it is easy to destroy privacy unintentionally
[2020-06-09T16:57:03.093Z]	<chriswinc>	... future state could be that the wallet warns you of these scenarios with key association and disclosure risks
[2020-06-09T16:57:07.541Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+ to ask are people using HD keys? are people interested in supporting airgap QR approaches? Is anyone doing multisig?
[2020-06-09T16:57:52.735Z]	<chriswinc>	... adversary builds off what they can see so the motivation behind the metadata is to balance this
[2020-06-09T16:57:53.087Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack wayne
[2020-06-09T16:58:15.754Z]	<chriswinc>	wayne: has there been investigation into DPKI and KERI?
[2020-06-09T16:59:07.051Z]	<chriswinc>	Orie: if you have a kms now, you would represent that in a JSON data model. Not intended to commingle separate kms tools
[2020-06-09T16:59:07.141Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-06-09T16:59:33.873Z]	<Orie_>	We support HD Keys
[2020-06-09T16:59:51.061Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	please type +1 HD key if you do, or plan to, support HD keys in your wallet
[2020-06-09T16:59:53.107Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: Do your tools plan to support HD Keys? Type +1 in chat if you are.
[2020-06-09T16:59:54.942Z]	<chriswinc>	+1
[2020-06-09T16:59:56.129Z]	<Orie_>	but for secp256k1 only
[2020-06-09T17:00:03.627Z]	<jonathan_holt>	is HD in 25519 a thing yet?
[2020-06-09T17:00:19.574Z]	<Orie_>	is it secure? ... jury is out...
[2020-06-09T17:00:23.375Z]	<chriswinc>	... yes in 25519 but it is a challenge
