Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-08-09-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-08-09-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2022-08-09

Agenda:
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/AGENDA.md
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Orie Steele, nis, Raad, Ben - Transmute, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau 
  (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Russell Hofvendahl (mesur.io), Chris 
  Abernethy, Vivien

<ccgbot> Chris Abernethy joined the meeting.
<ccgbot> Chris_Abernethy: present+
<ccgbot> Logging to 
  https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2022-08-09-irc.log
<ccgbot> CG Bot joined the meeting.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Victory 
  appears to be ours.
<ccgbot> Chris Abernethy left the meeting.
<ccgbot> Raw transcript at 
  https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2022-08-09-irc.log
<ccgbot> The meeting has ended.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/326
Chris_Abernethy: I apologize actually just was able to get into 
  the call something wrong with Mike's link.
Chris_Abernethy: She got it all right so I apologize you said 
  three to six okay so I was looking into this in response to some 
  chatter on slack that the actual spec has not been published in 
  quite some time editor's draft so I did some investigating and 
  some cleanup we did a couple of months ago removed the CD 
  workflow that was doing that so I've.
Chris_Abernethy: Added a new.
Chris_Abernethy: In that will now publish the contents of the 
  docks / spec folder which is where I moved all of the spec 
  related items the the sections HTML the I think three images that 
  were used and index.html and those will now be published to / 
  draft in the existing GitHub Pages area whenever someone wishes 
  to Maine and it includes changes to the docks / spec folder.
Chris_Abernethy: It should be noted that there's an additional PR 
  linked in there for the perm ID repo that will change the 
  permalink to the index.html.
Chris_Abernethy: Well currently the index.html lives at the root 
  of our GitHub folder now it lives in the draft.
Chris_Abernethy: So we'll need a sink or a may have permission to 
  merge that I'm not sure if that's the case or you can you speak 
  to that.
Orie Steele:  If it's a pull request that I proved you have my 
  permission to merge it.
Chris_Abernethy: This this is for the Perma ID / W 3 ID don't 
  work.
Orie Steele:  You can't you can't merge that I will have to leave 
  a comment saying I endorse your change and you should get Mike to 
  do the same and then they will merge it for us.
Chris_Abernethy: Got it okay.
Orie Steele:  But you said only to do that after you merge the 
  other one so the other ones been merged and now we're just 
  waiting for a permit ID.
Chris_Abernethy: I believe so nis.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Ben_-_Transmute: Okay this is a.
Ben_-_Transmute: The the equipment Small Change there's a result 
  as follows that gets created every time you run at the Mt with 
  the results of how many of the test results and this is causing a 
  bunch of thrashing when we put a porpoise this is removing it 
  from the repository and adding it to get ignore.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/515
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/517
Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah 3:17 is just cleaning up some 
  stuff with the food grade inspection schemas I put in a while ago 
  there are two things one is fixing undefined terms which are all 
  seem to be rooted and just various structural and semantic 
  mistakes and also improving making making some of the.
Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Terrific a lot of it is now 
  referring to Eunice Yoon AC don't know how to actually put on sit 
  acronym but um yeah so it's just cleaning up those schemas.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/518
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/520
Vivien: I said I can for rad I don't see him joining here so but.
Vivien: Yum no I messaged him dead he can rejoin but he's not 
  replying but so basically it's an update in the postal address 
  where he changed the organization name to a name because there is 
  a use case where we wanna use the pro stole a dress to represent 
  the facility.
Vivien:  and the.
Vivien: Doesn't make sense to describe the facility name with 
  organization they so it's better to have a more general term.
Vivien: That's all the pr is about.
<vivien> :+1:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/96
Orie Steele:  Yeah I think it's essentially continuously 
  happening right now without an actual verifiable credential 
  associated with it I think this is a cool idea that seems like it 
  would just be extra work for folks and I'm not sure I'm hearing 
  anyone chomping at the bit to implement it.
Orie Steele:  So we could leave it open or we can just close it 
  as no interest.
Ben_-_Transmute: I mean I think we want to be passing the results 
  before we celebrate.
Ben_-_Transmute: I mean I would be tempted to close it now and 
  say like okay once everyone is passing the test you know is there 
  some official search kitchen that we want to create for it but I 
  would kind of say this the the focus should be on passing the 
  test first.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/289
Chris_Abernethy: I'm just reviewing this quickly so right now 
  there don't it looks like for the identifiers / did endpoint need 
  some additional work so that we know specifically what sort of 
  response should return should be returned if the provided did 
  parameter it's one not a valid ID at all.
Chris_Abernethy:  all or two.
Chris_Abernethy: I did the can't be resolved by the end point 
  right now we're just kicking out unexpected error which is more 
  or less 500 and that it didn't seem like that was enough detail.
Chris_Abernethy: I'm not you know I'm not sure what the right 
  answer is it seems like probably we would want some kind of 400 
  bad request if it's not a valid ID or and or a 400 I found if it 
  can't be resolved open to other ideas on that or open to being 
  shot down if everyone thinks 500 is fine.
Chris_Abernethy: I think I would be okay with that that would be 
  great.
Orie Steele:  I'm going to leave a comment on it to check the did 
  Speck Registries error code section which seems relevant to this.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/307
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I think I was I was kind of going through 
  and looking at each one of those and yeah all the tutorials have 
  a nice read me Apollo describes what to do and that once took out 
  is not having anything which goes against the flow for our love 
  story.
Orie Steele:  So as I understand it we're all pretty much 
  intending to start using these endpoints a lot more so today 
  we're passing interoperability tests with presentations available 
  and presentation submission and we're currently all planning to 
  stop really doing that and start using this and point with oauth 
  security so I just want to check their.
Orie Steele:  Buddy on the car.
Orie Steele:  That's not what we're doing.
Orie Steele:  Or where the direction that we're headed.
Orie Steele:  Okay so given the silence and plus ones and the 
  chat this seems like a thing that we really ought to have a 
  really nice tutorial documentation around and given that Chris is 
  so good I hate to do this but Chris would you mind documenting 
  this in the format that you've done for the other ones or should 
  we use this as a training exercise for someone else to get on 
  your level.
Chris_Abernethy: II do not mind reading the documentation for 
  this it will probably take a backseat to me rounding out the per 
  the conformance testing though.
Orie Steele:  Yeah makes sense.
Chris_Abernethy: Yes please do.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/310
Chris_Abernethy: Yes this one is mine this is an issue reminding 
  me that we need to add a conformance test to the credentials 
  issue and point to ensure that the issuer ID that was provided in 
  request is the same issue ID that comes back in the response.
Chris_Abernethy: Is where it needs to go.
Chris_Abernethy: And it's a short note in there on how to do that 
  we have to resolve the did web get the also known as one so that 
  we know that.
Chris_Abernethy: The implementation where queering actually does 
  know about sure ID.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/311
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah this is.
Chris_Abernethy: This is related to I think the one we just 
  discussed where we need a negative test so that if you try to 
  issue a credential with a issue ID that the endpoint doesn't know 
  about it should return an error.
Chris_Abernethy: It has to have private key material in order to 
  perform the operation.
Chris_Abernethy: I think it can be ready for PR I'll just need to 
  choose what I think is the most appropriate response in this case 
  I would probably go with bad request.
Ben_-_Transmute: I would that would agree on that.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/293
Chris_Abernethy: Yes this is a problem in the conformance suite 
  where I'm using a temporary placeholder for issuer ID clearly we 
  can't properly test any of the things we've just been discussing 
  if we are using fake issue or IDs so this needs to use a valid 
  issue ID by querying a resolving dude web and getting the also 
  known as its first position.
Chris_Abernethy: We do indeed it's a known quantity this will be 
  a little bit different in that I'll probably simply write a 
  function that goes in does this versus a separate request is 
  we're not we're not testing that functionality we're simply using 
  it.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/41
Orie Steele:  Sure I think where we're at is there's a couple 
  cases we've identified that yield errors and we have started to 
  define a standard error format and we've started to align on 
  different error codes cases and case in point the conformance 
  tests really cover all of these so I wonder if this tick is just 
  become overtaken by events and the conformance.
Orie Steele:  Mission to cover all interesting errors but folks 
  think.
Chris_Abernethy: I'm inclined to agree and I think we can close 
  this.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/313
<orie> apologies I have to drop
<orie> glhf
Chris_Abernethy: This is another reminder to add a negative test 
  to the conformance Sweet this is to test set the response from 
  credentials issue includes the same credential subject that was 
  provided in the request.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/314
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/315
Chris_Abernethy: So 315 when we have that facet View and this is 
  both in the conformance test in the interop tests it's more 
  obvious and conformance because there are more tests that whole 
  section is fixed height right now we need to make that Dynamic 
  height so that each line in it is given equal spacing so these 
  boxes don't start to overlap and get crowded.
Chris_Abernethy: I don't think so this is ready for PR.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/245
Chris_Abernethy: We got them to ready for PR last time.
Chris_Abernethy: So the CI nothing has happened here yet.
Chris_Abernethy: I'll get the next four I'll suffer sign.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/243
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/242
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/244
Chris_Abernethy: I did yes.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/272
Chris_Abernethy: We discuss this one two weeks ago this is simply 
  a matter of differentiating the template used to generate the 
  interop and performance reports so it's a bit more custom to the 
  report that it represents we talked about changing the title and 
  summary as a first step this is simply hasn't been done yet.
Ben_-_Transmute: Also he saw Jesus Reserve very narrowly defined 
  it's open to finding them.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/520
Ben_-_Transmute: I think we would hope that anything that changes 
  the context would cause proofs to break.
Vivien: So basically going to.
Vivien: All the Francine are using the postal address and make 
  updates over this world.
Ben_-_Transmute: Oh wait wait the church the term has also been 
  changed or fart.
Vivien: Okay I'll bring that to rap.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/87
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/199
Chris_Abernethy: I know I think some time ago we decided this is 
  ready for PR I think two weeks ago I've just been out so I 
  haven't had a chance to work on this I think we have a good 
  direction.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/39
Ben_-_Transmute: It looks like it looks like from Brian's 
  response at this is still externally blocked at this moment.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/100
Ben_-_Transmute: I think they're the pull request two weeks ago 
  that added this to the repeat to make it more accessible do you 
  want to do anything beyond this in terms of publishing the 
  postman requests or do we think that adding links to the reading 
  is enough to satisfy the conditions for this.
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/
Ben_-_Transmute: My impression was that they were added to the 
  readme so they might not be in the document.
Chris_Abernethy: There were a number of places in the tutorials 
  where he added notes at the top to say hey if you want to just 
  bypass this tutorial and load up the postman stuff this is how 
  you do it.
Ben_-_Transmute: All right well let's yeah let's add specific 
  action items and then.
Chris_Abernethy: I think we've drifted quite far from the 
  original purpose of the ticket perhaps we should open a new 
  issue.
Ben_-_Transmute: I think that's also an option if we just close 
  this and defined something it's narrowly defined I think.
Ben_-_Transmute: It seems like we're kind of kicking around and 
  not being very decisive about what actually needs to be done 
  here.
Chris_Abernethy: We have 25 to through 246 still that are pending 
  clothes that we should be able to close.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/252
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/251
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/250
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/249
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/248
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/246
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/325
Chris_Abernethy: I think I make sense can we link to the trace 
  vocab schema.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Ben_-_Transmute: I think the one thing to point out here is the 
  one obvious one way hopefully can agree on is to keep claims 
  inside the credential subjects.
Ben_-_Transmute: If we if we can agree on that I would declare 
  most of this a win for the certification one I think that kind of 
  depends on how we Define the context of how we Define The Styling 
  that is definitely the the approach that we've taken up and till 
  now and that's I think that could be its own separate bigger 
  debate depending who want to take that up but I think that if 
  this is kind of old it was recorded on March 3rd I should I think 
  we can kind of just agree on what.
Ben_-_Transmute: Define what points we agree on them than closest 
  to get.
Ben_-_Transmute: Then raise new issues.
Ben_-_Transmute: Different ticket we want to take that up.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I think that's the one we can definitely 
  agree on.
Ben_-_Transmute: The certificate is what we've been using up 
  until now and I think that that that depends on how we Define our 
  context of that that's a different conversation I would 
  definitely say that credentials credential subject should be the 
  easiest same thing that we can agree to.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/313
Ben_-_Transmute: Do we need what we need to Define versioning do 
  we need to have specific goals or do you just want to increment 
  at specific points or what what versioning approach would we take 
  for this.
Ben_-_Transmute: And then does the versioning just apply to the 
  respect document.
Ben_-_Transmute: I mean I would almost proposed just put a pull 
  request in the respect document that says put it 0 1 and then we 
  can decide in different later from then just to say that we have 
  some we have something rather than completely nothing and go from 
  there.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): That works 
  for me I mean we could even set it to actually be version 1 I 
  mean it's just a tracking thing for us to know which one is newer 
  than the other.
Ben_-_Transmute: I would I would kind of lean towards version 0.1 
  over version 1.0 as kind of a small note I think that version 1.0 
  kind of indicates that like.
Ben_-_Transmute: That this is like a stable version order ready 
  to release and it's ready to be adopted as a standard I don't 
  know if we're quite at that point to make.
Ben_-_Transmute: So just market rate for PR in this.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/350
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/351
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/353
Ben_-_Transmute: Okay writing it's the person I was I have the 
  memory span of a goldfish so I completely forgot I wrote These 
  okay that's good.
Ben_-_Transmute: There are also saying that they want to wait 
  until the traceability context is fixed stabilized so that kind 
  of that would indicate that this is blocked by a version 1.0 
  release of traceability context.
Ben_-_Transmute: I think that they're waiting for our version 1 
  that's the way I interpret this.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah but I think I think my well I'm just kind 
  of call you my impression of this is for people to issue 
  credentials using the traceability context if we make any changes 
  that update the context of credentials have been sign they will 
  not be able to verify after the context has been changed so we 
  want to get to the point where context is fixed and stable so 
  that people can be assured that once they issue credentials with 
  our version 1.0 context it's not.
Ben_-_Transmute: Going to change after that.
Ben_-_Transmute: I think Aureus cross-linking and issue on there 
  so I don't think there is a PR on our site that will fix this I 
  think this is saying that we're ready and stable.
Ben_-_Transmute: So this is this is or you putting in on our 
  radar that for other people to be assured to user context they 
  would prefer to have a fixed version to sign the gates.
Chris_Abernethy: I can do it.
