Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-10-16-vc-education/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-10-16-vc-education/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC for Education Task Force Transcript for 2023-10-16

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2023Oct/0002.html
Topics:
  1. IP Note
  2. Call Notes
  3. Introductions & Reintroductions
  4. Announcements & Reminders
  5. Plugfest 3
Organizer:
  Kerri Lemoie
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Kerri Lemoie, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), 
  Andy Griebel, Susan Stroud, Keith Hackett, Dmitri Zagidulin, Don 
  Presant, Mahesh Balan - pocketcred com, Eric Shepherd, Phil Long, 
  Sharon Leu, Kayode Ezike, Patrick (IDLab), Adam (Tangle Labs), 
  Nis Jespersen , Marty Reed, Geun-Hyung, Ted Thibodeau, Stuart 
  Freeman, Chandi Cumaranatunge, Kate Giovacchini, Danny Done, 
  David Chadwick, Kaliya Young, Colin Reynolds, Ed Design Lab, 
  James Chartrand, Sheryl, Colin, Chris Webber, TimG, Deb Everhart, 
  Phil L (P1)

<kerri_lemoie> Hello all - we'll get started in a couple of 
  minutes.
<tallted> hmmm... Jitsi says the host hasn't arrived yet, but 
  Kerri has the host crown... audio comes in from Kerri & Dmitri, 
  but I can't unmute... gonna drop and rejoin. noting here for 
  later jitsi analysis
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Kerri Lemoie:  Hello everyone welcome to the Monday October 16th 
  verify the credentials for Education task force today our topic 
  is a review of plugfest 3 and then also I W if there's anybody 
  here who would like to share their experiences I'm a Dy w.
Kerri Lemoie:  Go through the the beginning boilerplate and then 
  we'll jump into our topic our main topic.
Kerri Lemoie:  Where is IP note.

Topic: IP Note

<kate_giovacchini> Good morning!
Kerri Lemoie:  Anyone can participate in these calls however any 
  substitute of contributions to the ccg work items must be made by 
  members of the ccg with full IP our agreement signed we send out 
  those links in the agenda email that goes to the vcg mailing list 
  I believe these links are also in this ECG mailing list pretty 
  frequently so if you'd like to contribute to the specs please 
  review those member agreements.

Topic: Call Notes

Kerri Lemoie:  Please calls are recorded and as you can see there 
  is a robot transcriber in the chat we also use a cue system for 
  participating in the call so if you would like to join in the 
  conversation or ask a question just spit in that way to take Q 
  Plus and you will be added to the queue and q- will review remove 
  you from the queue just.
Kerri Lemoie:   Like I did in the chat just now.

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

Kerri Lemoie:  You can also use the hand icon and the lower 
  bottom dashboard of did see or if you are unable to do any of 
  those things just let us know and we'll add you to the kids okay 
  next topic is introductions and reintroductions is there anybody 
  here today who would like to introduce themselves or reintroduce 
  themselves on this so just add yourself to the queue.
Kerri Lemoie:  Patrick from ideal AB you have the floor.
Kerri Lemoie:  Hey Patrick we can't hear you or I can't hear you 
  it could be me.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  No I can't either.
Kerri Lemoie:  Can others here Patrick or am I having volume 
  trouble I'm okay.
<patrick_(idlab)> i will rejoin!
Kerri Lemoie:  Patrick thank you please do and put yourself up 
  when you come back it's probably not here right now anybody else 
  that would like to introduce themselves tell us about your work.
Kerri Lemoie:  What come back 20 Patrick is back let's see if we 
  can hear Patrick.
Kerri Lemoie:  We got you Patrick go ahead.
Patrick_(IDLab): Okay perfect awesome sometimes you'd see give me 
  a issue with certain browsers it's happened before.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah just wanted to introduce myself it's my 
  first time on the Visa did you call I've been attending the VC 
  API calls for some time and that is about as much active 
  participation I do want the wtcg I do however try to follow 
  different nsh serve to the public mailing list so I enjoy having 
  a look at what is happening and I had the pleasure to meet some 
  people here at the plug.
Patrick_(IDLab):  Fest and I had W and it was a.
Patrick_(IDLab): Experience just wanted to introduce myself and 
  say hi to everyone I work for I D lab where a Canadian nonprofit 
  that specialize in digital identity that's it.
Kerri Lemoie:  Oh that's great Patrick thank you for introducing 
  yourself.
Kerri Lemoie:  I don't see anybody else on the list for 
  introductions so why don't we go to announcements and reminders 
  does anybody have any announcements that they would like to make.

Topic: Announcements & Reminders

Kerri Lemoie:  Or any reminders of things coming up that you'd 
  like us to know about.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah I think we're getting into the part of 
  the Year where there's blessedly few conferences and reminders of 
  them.
Kerri Lemoie:  Blessedly fuse and good way to put that I'm happy 
  to be home.
<kate_giovacchini> Congratulations on your new role!
Kerri Lemoie:  I actually have an announcement to make so I'll go 
  ahead and then you can take it from there so today is my day last 
  day hosting a VC edgy call as a co-chair I'm going to be stepping 
  down as a co-chair because I have I've taken on a new role as 
  director of the digital credential Consortium and I'm it's a big 
  time commitment it is hard to be hard for me to balance both so I 
  need to make some room for this new.
Kerri Lemoie:   Ooh roll.
<phil_t3> You will be deeply missed as one of the leaders of 
  VC-EDU
Kerri Lemoie:  You also know I'm very proud of the work we've 
  done together and I have no plans on like running away from this 
  group or anything I just need to step back from planning agendas 
  and doing that sort of thing but I still plan to be involved and 
  and also DCC will be heavily involved because we have Dimitri who 
  is who works with us at DC he's our lead architect and he still 
  will be co-chair so these Hedges gonna be looking for another 
  co-chair and there's going to be an election and.
Kerri Lemoie:   And if you're interested you could reach out to 
  Dmitri or Simoni or me and.
Kerri Lemoie:  And all of that Dimitri do you have anything you'd 
  like to say about that right now.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  No so I guess so we can mention the mechanism 
  so we'll just like previously I think this was in 23 years ago I 
  forget will be doing a rank Choice voting for have more than one 
  candidate volunteer and will will host a call where candidates 
  can introduce themselves.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So yeah let's let's start with that so Kerry 
  thank you so much for Heroic and Titanic work that you've done 
  for this group over all the years and like I'm really.
<susan_stroud> Congrats, Kerri!  We've appreciated your 
  contributions to this group and look forward to where this is 
  going!
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The been more like honored and happy working 
  with you and learned a ton and of course we'll the group the task 
  force is in good hands so little.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Looking forward to your involvement as as an 
  attendee.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Of course absolutely.
Kerri Lemoie:  Thanks Dmitri I really appreciate that. I 
  definitely feel like it is in good hands and there's definitely 
  some things I would like to do is part of this group so maybe 
  I'll have a little bit more availability to do that, attend the 
  meetings maybe once in a while Dmitri & Simone will let me host a 
  call.
Kerri Lemoie:   Just for fun.
Kerri Lemoie:  Thank you all really appreciate that.

Topic: Plugfest 3

Kerri Lemoie:  Now let's move on to our main topic Sharon Lee I'm 
  going to hand the floor over to you to give us a recap of 
  plugfest hurry and I know there's some folks here who 
  participated who might want to join in this conversation too but 
  I'll let you kick us off.
Sharon Leu:  Morning so first of all to I guess Echo what Dimitri 
  said really going to miss you as one of the co-chairs of this 
  group and thank you for all the support that you and smoothie and 
  Dimitri have given to this jmf team for doing these plugfest I 
  feel like I've had a ton of fun working together on this and look 
  forward to doing other and different things with you and the new 
  co-chair whoever that person may be so with.
Sharon Leu:   That said I just want to put a link into the.
<kerri_lemoie> Thanks  :heart: It's been my honor.
Sharon Leu: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/plugfest-3-2023/
<sharon_leu> Recording of the day is available for viewing here:
Sharon Leu:  Is the the VC edu page where we have all of the 
  information about the contest and at this point we have 22 of the 
  24 videos posted we also have a link that I'm going to drop into 
  the chat with I guess the recording of the day as well as the 
  presentation deck that people can replay if they run out of 
  things on Netflix.
Sharon Leu:   Is that.
Sharon Leu:  Be interested in watching I actually want to watch 
  it again myself for a couple of reasons first I think that 
  whenever you're the host of an event you're always worried about 
  like if the sandwiches are going to be delivered on time but like 
  and you don't get as much sort of real-time opportunity to really 
  reflect but also because I want to admire what I think is one of 
  our greatest accomplishments which is we paid money to have 
  people do.
Sharon Leu:   Do the.
Sharon Leu:  A visual production of the event so we are hoping 
  that it was the best of the three as far as the hybrid in-person 
  virtual participation and if you have any additional feedback on 
  whether you dialed in or whether you were in the room and you 
  felt like you were able to be heard and participate that would be 
  really helpful for us just from like an event Logistics 
  perspective so that we can know how to improve moving forward so.
Sharon Leu:   Oh that's I think just details and.
Sharon Leu:  And I think I will just start by saying that I 
  really appreciate this community and everyone that did the hard 
  work of participating in the in these plug vests when we first 
  started doing them they were just like a yeah we should do this 
  because Anil John does them and they seemed like a good way to 
  help us accomplish our goals and so I like I think our team 
  wasn't quite sure what kind of response we would get from the 
  community but I think that we have been.
Sharon Leu:   Really excited to see so many people.
Sharon Leu:  Working on these activities are goals always we're 
  not technical I am not a technical person deeply myself and 
  neither is my team I think what we are is committed to this idea 
  that individuals can control their credentials and to use them in 
  mix-and-match them so that they can best represent themselves as 
  they pursue Workforce or education opportunities and I think that 
  we threw this work at the.
Sharon Leu:   Bug vest and with you in partnership with the VC 
  Edge.
Sharon Leu:  And this group have been a pretty far down the road 
  there as far as credentials being moved in and out of different 
  faiths who have demonstrated that individuals can point their 
  data so logistically we had about 2014 submit their final videos 
  two of them aren't posted yet that is not not because of them 
  it's because of us but we will get to that when we have 
  additional final information and we also know that some people 
  have expressed interest in.
Sharon Leu:   Eating a different video.
Sharon Leu:  Fine and so we'll wait and do one final batch upload 
  again when we have all of this in the next week or so really 
  really pleased with the two different sort of groups that 
  demonstrated interoperability both with the VC API chappie 
  protocol as well as with the oid sort of family of protocols and 
  also really just interesting things that we noticed I'll just say 
  a couple of them so number one I think that using this.
Sharon Leu:   A sort of.
Sharon Leu:  To model really worked very well because I think it 
  freed up people's resources to focus on refining the things that 
  they needed to do to so that the workflow worked for the 
  presentation exchange so I'll say the technical requirements for 
  this were that you have to grab three credentials either from you 
  know one of the sort of protocols appropriate like sandboxes like 
  the chappie the VC playground or I think we also use the matter 
  Launchpad for this extensively.
Sharon Leu:   I grabbed three different credentials into your 
  wallet and then.
Sharon Leu:  Eva request for presentation package them up into a 
  VP and send them back to the requester for the most part I think 
  that it was interesting to see how the different user experiences 
  were for us on the different wallet interfaces I see coyote on 
  the call I think they really appreciated how on some of the 
  wallets there was some a lot of thought given to allow select the 
  credentials that they wanted to present and then create the 
  package and then also how.
Sharon Leu:   Some people went a little bit above and beyond and 
  also.
Sharon Leu:  We saw this a ton with the sort of teams that use 
  the open ID protocol and and also really noticed that people who 
  used BC API and chappie tended to enjoy putting music to their 
  videos more so than the others so I think those were my general 
  observations and I guess I'll leave it to others if so right now 
  next up the Wi-Fi in the plane wasn't super great and our team is 
  getting.
Sharon Leu:   Ying just caught up right now we.
Sharon Leu:  I'm sending individual emails to every one of the 
  participants in the next couple of days to either say like yeah 
  go ahead and invoice us like it looks great or to ask if you 
  would like to resubmit a video or to provide some clarification 
  once that's all done in the next couple of months we will be sort 
  of sourcing ideas for how this community hopes to proceed for 
  example if there are technical things that we should work on 
  together.
Sharon Leu:  Straight like additional interrupt whether it's 
  creating users sort of stories or workflows that are a little bit 
  be aligned to the real world or if there are some you know just 
  other questions that anyone has so I'm going to stop I noticed 
  Dimitri in the queue so perfect person to take it over from here.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Sharon and in addition to just give a 
  couple thoughts on the plugfest day you know I was going to ask 
  so can we start that conversation now just even in the 
  brainstorming and idea Gathering even though you said after the 
  team gets done with everything else.
Sharon Leu:  Oh yeah absolutely open for ideas.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Excellent okay right on okay so yeah I was 
  once again extremely impressed with all of the teams I know a lot 
  of whom I had to do some heavy lifting to enable these external 
  enabled handling external requests for credentials from their 
  fires and relying parties so good job everyone I want to give a 
  special shout-out to Brian Richter of aviary.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Tech who I think was the only.
Kerri Lemoie: :Clap:
Dmitri Zagidulin:  To handle all three families of protocols DC 
  API open ID and and did come to so it is possible so good job 
  Brian let's see what else.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I yeah I think we'll start with that I'd love 
  to hear from some of the other attendees thoughts what were the 
  easier the difficult Parts implementing.
<sharon_leu> And Brian was a/ the first to send a video; and b/ 
  had interesting music
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And what are some ideas you have for next.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Next interop plug Festival which is inevitably 
  coming just just to see the conversation so far our sort of 
  conversations among the jmf team have been one focusing on the 
  end to end or the minimal viable ecosystem which is a lovely term 
  that just that we picked up from I.
<kate_giovacchini> Would be very interested to see execution of a 
  use case centered around a learner/earner.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So that's that's thought number one and then 
  number two is continuing pushing the not really the envelope but 
  but pushing the implementation percentage of some of these 
  crucial specifications that we have in the wallet World such as 
  for example.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Export and import or otherwise wallet 
  transport so one of the one of the cornerstones what are the 
  pillars of the verifiable credential world.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And everything that care or that Sharon has 
  mentioned before is this notion of user Choice the learner choice 
  so if they it's crucial that we enable the situation that if they 
  have credentials in one wallet and if for some reason I don't 
  like it or even just if the the implementer of the wallet has 
  when I do.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Business or disappeared or otherwise.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Continued that they're able to release that 
  credentials from that wall and transferred to another one that 
  they're using.
<sharon_leu> @kate - Can you elaborate on what needs to be in 
  place for this to happen? which stakeholders need to join? etc.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right so we'll start with that let's see 
  who else is on the Queue Patrick go ahead.
Patrick_(IDLab): A question regarding this there are some 
  credential types an example and on creds which the credential is 
  binded to the wallet so within that make this unfeasible in 
  certain situation.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Fantastic question so hat at this previous iwi 
  one of the one of the sessions I thought was really exciting was 
  Sam Clarence session on let's see what is it called at Universal 
  wallet container export format which is SPAC I think being 
  incubated in a diff right now and possibly over trust over IP 
  know it is it isn't trust over IP.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  A body in our community that defines a very 
  very rough container essentially zipped in Cryptid set of files 
  and directories that a wallet export would live in and even 
  though in the session discussing the sort of the roadmap for it 
  this exact question has been brought up some.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Some credentials are bound to a particular 
  trusted Hardware module which cannot export keys and some 
  credentials like you like you said like the Anon creds and 
  various other selective disclosure methods are just not able to 
  be exported at all so when we say while it transfer or while it 
  exports is we always have that asterisk in mind of whenever 
  possible right so some keys.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   These are just not physically able to be 
  exported.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Credentials not physically able to be exported 
  however one of the one of the items that was brought up during 
  the discussion which which I think we have to debate as a 
  community is would it be helpful or not to export not the an 
  exportable credentials but essentially a receipt or an IOU this 
  notion that hey I once had a credential to remind the user to go 
  get and have it reissued.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That's a yeah so whatever possible plus 
  reminders.
Patrick_(IDLab): That's an interesting idea.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah definitely something to think about all 
  of us Susan go.
Susan_Stroud: Couldn't dream this is Susan's drought from with 
  clipped and we did get a chance to participate in the park 
  fastest passed around and we are really excited to do that in 
  very thankful for the experience and the partnership they 
  received especially in the conversations and slack and just how 
  much support our team had and being able to really work through 
  blockers very quickly whenever maybe we didn't understand 
  something or we needed to work through a particular piece so I 
  think that really made our experience.
Susan_Stroud:  I don't know I am a techie so I'll call it 
  enjoyable.
Susan_Stroud: In terms of you know how teams work together to 
  resolve connectivity and interoperability issues so thank you for 
  that we also heard in that conversation about how many ux 
  experience issues that we have overall I mean a lot of really 
  tough problems came up and the answer is you know that's a ux 
  issue that's a ux issue and while I don't disagree with some of 
  the categorizations and you know what needs what the wallets need 
  to be able to do to move forward there's a lot of change 
  management for Mikey.
Susan_Stroud:  Manatee perspective kind of goes with some of 
  those that you X-Bow.
Susan_Stroud: About what kind of use cases are really helpful 
  going forward to me it's really about having some purpose built 
  some very intentional use cases that include the verifier 
  actually accepting the VP that's requested there's a lot of 
  interesting things that can be done with Selective disclosure in 
  that in terms of being able to you know build out you know what 
  actually the what the the holder right what is the holder want to 
  present outright they're not always secondary in this process 
  they.
Susan_Stroud:  they may be wanting to push.
Susan_Stroud: Information and so as you think about that as a way 
  to kind of meet halfway between a barrel fire and you know what 
  their current experiences are and how we can kind of Drive 
  adoption forward I think having specific verifiers ready to 
  accept you know very specific VPS for very specific purposes at 
  all still comply with all of the interoperability and security 
  and really just privacy standards that exist to me that's where 
  when you start talking about those into ends that you can really 
  start to get somewhere because it's not a one-size-fits-all.
Susan_Stroud:  all which does bring in render method to be honest 
  in terms of a you know you won't have a good bite about what is 
  it one size fits all or.
Susan_Stroud: Something else and.
Kerri Lemoie: +1 RenderMethod
Susan_Stroud: That's another really important component I think 
  to being able to create accessible applications for holders so 
  that were able to represent information at least you know and 
  minimal and consistent way you do let's say for example with an 
  ALT name on an image for example on a website today with the 
  really has to be some strong consideration around render method 
  and what it's really there to do and what it isn't there to do as 
  much as probably anything else because that's where I see a lot 
  of folks getting caught up and.
Susan_Stroud:  taking it you know maybe a little bit too far so 
  those were some of the key.
Kerri Lemoie: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-render-method/
Phil Long: +1 For considering render method and +1 to look at 
  selective disclosure methods
Susan_Stroud: I wanted to kind of bring up the other area is 
  actually around creating more support for Native mobile 
  applications and really being able to beef up some of our 
  notification and just the overall experience around verifiable 
  and verifiable presentation request you know we obviously we do 
  but we did and we did a great job working together to make that 
  work but in terms of scaling that overall solution I think 
  there's a little bit more conversation to happen there so that 
  could be another place we really talk about some of those in.
Susan_Stroud:  and experiences how do we think about what that 
  looks like for a mobile.
Susan_Stroud: You know app that is native to the product and 
  we're not looking to create a different experience for that so 
  that's all I wanted to say I just wanted to share those thoughts 
  about ways that we participated thank you so much and also some 
  things that are important to us going forward.
<kerri_lemoie> Thanks Susan!
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Susan I that that's really helpful 
  insight and also speaking of support of course I got to give a 
  shout out to again the amazing effort that our.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Aha the the implementers who created the 
  credential playground the menu matter playground and then some of 
  the other verifiers and play go and implementers that have 
  supported thank you all I see we have some of them on our call 
  here we have least half Morgan from digital bizarre who put 
  together the credential playground and if anybody else from any 
  of those teams are here.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Thank you very much for supporting all of 
  these.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Alright let's see here you're up next.
<morgan_lemmer_webber> It was wonderful helping you all integrate 
  with the VC Playground!
Kerri Lemoie:  And put myself in the queue to where's about 
  thanks Susan for those great remarks and to talk a little bit 
  about render method because we found out in our discussion after 
  we watch the videos last Monday that render method is something 
  that's sort of been considered to be on the chopping block at the 
  ccg the many of us feel like this is the the best way to approach 
  you know for for issuers to suggest display of credentials.
Kerri Lemoie:   And we should do a call on that sub.
Kerri Lemoie:  Dimitri I say we but you guys should do a call on 
  that at some point because it's you for part of the plugfest the 
  first one was just this plane open badge credential and then in 
  the third one we had different types of credentials but we didn't 
  really care about how they were displayed because we're focusing 
  on the presentation but if we were to say hey let's display all 
  these types of credentials think Walt would have a really hard 
  time trying to decide how would they do that unless.
Kerri Lemoie:   We specifically said these are the credentials we 
  these are the fields we.
Kerri Lemoie:  Display there are hundreds of properties like 
  json-ld properties and others that can be used in credentials and 
  yeah well we really need to think through how we're going to be 
  displaying them I'm not in the only in the wallet maybe you know 
  from the wall and outside the wallet so if you hear a render 
  method and people wanting to cut render method and you see that 
  in the mailing list please voice your support or help us think of 
  some other way to go about that.
Kerri Lemoie:  That's all I was thinking of saying.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Gary yeah that and I think we'll 
  definitely have another call not too distant future discussing 
  where under method is at currently so just reminded for everybody 
  it's a work item picked up by the ccg so active work is being 
  done on the specification and we also gathered a lot of really 
  good feedback for some of the limitations or features.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   H or.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  His ability details of render method during 
  these past few weeks talking to some of you at plugfest others 
  about W and so on so yeah we're definitely very excited about 
  these the work on render method specifically anybody else want to 
  share their thoughts.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Either on the implementation detail or on what 
  the next upcoming plugfest that should involve.
Kerri Lemoie:  Yeah I would love to hear thoughts and you know 
  what what could plugfest for be what would be the next step the 
  next logical step for this.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah I could just end up surveys tonight I had 
  during the event and even after the event there seem to be a 
  strong representation of Json web token as a format for 
  credentials in the various platform especially during the 
  verification of the credential and I was actually wondering 
  during this plugfest what's.
Patrick_(IDLab):  next you know because it seems like.
Patrick_(IDLab): Ed that it was a very logical sequence up to now 
  the verification which you know we could say is like the the end 
  of the the ultimate purpose of a very full credential is to get 
  it verified to access whatever service or something one thing 
  that was identified for the future iteration is how to represent 
  these credentials which I think is very interesting I think also 
  there could be more on a phone.
<kaliya_identitywoman> more formats = more work
Patrick_(IDLab): Different specs sort of coexisting here it was a 
  lot like for an example for here the exchange was primarily YDC 
  you know it's getting a lot of traction I think there could be an 
  interesting angle to have multiple whether it's two different 
  exchange exchange mechanism in one floor sort of a well-used it 
  come from.
Patrick_(IDLab):  the issuance.
Patrick_(IDLab): You see for the presentation using the same 
  credentials and the same wallet I think that could be interesting 
  and also maybe in the same Spirit do multiple credential 
  different credentialed types or formats yeah those would be my 
  thought so maybe Focus now that it has been the flow made more 
  streamlined way but see how we can sort of mix different.
Patrick_(IDLab):  specification and.
Patrick_(IDLab): Than coexist would be my head.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That's really interesting that's a very cool 
  suggestion so it's definitely challenging for the plugfest team 
  because we.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  We really did a technology neutral organ hasta 
  krait so I our goal is to prevent present use cases and then see 
  what formats are protocols implementers the put forward to solve 
  those use cases right many of the wallets in this particular 
  plugfest did support multiple protocols and then as I mentioned 
  Brian's one keep supported all three which.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Definitely belongs in the bonus points 
  category at not not something we can we can require only because 
  there are multiple vendors in our ecosystem committed to only 
  supporting 11 format one protocol and would give a lot of 
  pushback will give a lot of resistance to being forced to support 
  more than one.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It's always tricky in that regard.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah you see that's a this is probably decide 
  that I would be less familiar with and people who have been here 
  maybe longer than me would be identified so I can now see the how 
  that would be definitely a problem.
Patrick_(IDLab): Because I think so maybe this wouldn't be the 
  right place for this because I think this this sort of exercise 
  would help to identify maybe where one's specification lacks you 
  know like they're not all equal it could also maybe help for 
  example the feedback I heard about the YDC is that they were 
  multiple different versions and some platform we're using one 
  version and others the other one that which made it sort of.
Patrick_(IDLab):  cult even if it was one.
Patrick_(IDLab): An ism that well which version of the section 
  exchange mechanism they're using.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah that's definitely a challenge currently 
  in the open I do community which will hoping they will store sort 
  out sharing your next.
Sharon Leu:  I just have quick comments about the credential 
  formats and then sort of another question which the quick 
  comments are I think that one.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I think you hit mute by by accident Sharon.
Sharon Leu:  Just anything oh sorry okay okay I'm back so I think 
  that it was interesting that once BC playground had like added 
  the functionality to be able to have credentials in a different 
  format other than the Capi chappie like it allows the oid see 
  credentials we saw a number of wallet to were only going to use 
  who I think we're initially just going to use the VC API chappie 
  protocol but.
Sharon Leu:   We're able to take an oid C credential also off 
  the.
Sharon Leu:  I think the existence of that tool made it so that 
  you could go to one place and grab the credential in whatever 
  format was available so I'm glad to see Morgan adding herself to 
  the queue so I thought that was interesting I guess I want to 
  like respond to a couple of things that Patrick and then Susan 
  and others have mentioned about the rid of all of this like next 
  step by reframing it in the in the context of questions that came 
  up while you guys were talking which is number one.
Sharon Leu:   Like what do you.
Sharon Leu:  To the mark either the market conditions or the 
  technical conditions that need to be in place in order for this 
  kind of sort of VC workflow to be like rather you get the 
  ubiquitous right so not just gather some more market like 
  traction but actually be the done the way that things are done 
  and in that context like what specific kinds of like I don't know 
  pieces need to be.
Sharon Leu:   In place to drive if.
Sharon Leu:  Like create it like what are the next things that 
  the community needs to do in order to get a state where this is 
  just what everyone does and I'm curious whether it's like 
  challenging application developer you know developers to 
  understand you know render or is it or or fix some of the ux 
  things or is it to work more specifically with verifiers so that 
  there's more of a sort of demand side pull anyway I don't want to 
  like pivot this too much away from the.
Sharon Leu:   Technical discussion but that's sort of how I also 
  am thinking in my head.
Sharon Leu:  The right next technical step.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Sharon Phil you're up next.
<phil_t3> No audio
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And if you're speaking can't hear you.
<phil_t3> Will come back
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Okay so so we'll come back so I think Morgan 
  you're up next.
Chris Webber:  I just wanted to comment on the VC playground and 
  adding support for other protocols and one of the things that we 
  wish we could have gotten done in time for this plugfest but just 
  didn't have time to do was so one we have plans to do well ID for 
  VP support and then also qr-code support so we realize as care as 
  sorry Sharon said a bunch.
Chris Webber:   Bunch of people who were planning to do.
Chris Webber:  Just be Capi entropy were able to add oid for 
  because we added that to the playground but we also realized that 
  it wasn't easy for projects that were planning to do oid for to 
  use the VC playground because we didn't have all the 
  infrastructure for that in place yet so one of digital bazaars 
  plans in the future is to implement those things so that it's not 
  just being able to do that in addition to VC API and crappy but 
  being able to use the.
Chris Webber:   DC playground for boys.
<sharon_leu> Another interesting observation is the EU/US edu 
  divide in protocol choice.
Chris Webber:  40 ID specific projects as well.
Chris Webber:  Also just a disclaimer I am not one of the 
  developers who created that so if there are.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  You representing though you're representing 
  the.
Chris Webber:  Something but just just if you have very technical 
  questions about those plans I am not the correct person to answer 
  them.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Mark and I are really grateful for your 
  individual desires work and sounds like there's more improvements 
  coming down the line I think about next on the Queue and I just 
  wanted to give a couple thoughts to Sharon's question about.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Your question correctly it was what can we do 
  to reduce the plethora of choices of formats and protocols down 
  to one hopefully to make interop and implementer jobs much easier 
  and that's always a great question that that's certainly 
  something I would like to see on the other hand we may never get 
  there's a community and that's okay meaning we may always be.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Be a man.
<susan_stroud> Verifiers need the ability to review a VP that has 
  been provided to them and use that data to advance their 
  workflows.  We won't know about new tech challenges to bringing 
  this to market adoption unless we have VPs being accepted by the 
  Verifiers and get their feedback.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Matt Community even if even for example if on 
  the verifiable credential side we sorted out and pick one there's 
  always going to be other formats from outside communities such as 
  mobile driver's license right so the EM Doc mobile document 
  format is likely to be to continue being very different from the 
  verifiable credentials and they're very various flavors so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   So It's Tricky.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I could see it either way Patrick you.
Patrick_(IDLab): Hey if you think this a baseball that so I'll 
  start with the latest point you just mentioned I think having 
  multiple formats available is a good thing but like you said not 
  force everyone just you know choose one and do it because that 
  can give a good representation of which Protocols are format or 
  mostly used in the community you know I believe that forcing this 
  sort of let's all converge to one specification.
Patrick_(IDLab):  I don't know it doesn't.
Patrick_(IDLab): For me I believe like let specification come in 
  and they will naturally sort of live or die based on adoption and 
  Community using them so that would be one thing I have to say a 
  good example for this is mentioned earlier like the and on creds 
  sort of credential format or type so a non-credit has a specific 
  way of storing different objects and verifying prove doing 
  selectors closure.
Patrick_(IDLab):  and zero.
Patrick_(IDLab): It works you know it's there's plenty of wall 
  that using it it's pretty intrapreneurial and you know at the 
  moment the PC is looking too well how can we take the 
  functionalities of an uncredited but use the variable control 
  data model to sort of carry those implementations so they will 
  they would adopt the verifiable credential as the sort of 
  official credential format for an on grades and it would instead 
  of being what it is which is a.
Patrick_(IDLab):  bunch of resources while it would become a new.
Patrick_(IDLab): Type so that's a good example of so the 
  community naturally deciding where it's going to go you know and 
  this this particular example it was it makes it only makes sense 
  to use the referable credential data model as a sort of body and 
  I think same would go with credential exchange you know if it's a 
  new specification that is with to obscure you know.
Patrick_(IDLab):  it won't get much.
Patrick_(IDLab): Still showcasing it's out there we'll only at 
  this that so that was just my point we're going this I had 
  another idea for maybe a next iteration of plugfest it could be 
  focus on wallet functions and features I know they were 
  discussion around sort of wallet notification maybe a short of 
  credential refresh so you get a credential that will expire and 
  you need to renew it so.
Patrick_(IDLab):  this I think.
Patrick_(IDLab): It could be very interesting because I believe 
  this was one of the limitation of the oid see exchange was to do 
  like further notification afterwards like once you get your 
  credentials issued okay well how can I be notified that my 
  credential was revoked and how can I sort of request a new 
  credential so I think I think this is this would be a good idea 
  finally regarding the.
Patrick_(IDLab):  the sort of.
Patrick_(IDLab): The VC playground and these platform I think 
  it's nice to have multiple platform I don't hear a lot people 
  show the interoperability with the matter platform and I think 
  it's always very interesting to sort of issue a credential for 
  one platform and presented in the different platform I think that 
  has a great element of interoperability menu so that those are 
  three points I just thought.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Next thanks I like some ideas also reminds me 
  that one of the one of the other features we could explore the 
  next plugfest is of course revocation everyone's favorite subject 
  I see we have Phil who's backfill go ahead.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I can't hear you Phil you may need to restart 
  browser or switch to a different one.
<phil_t3> No -not getting audio - will do.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Okay alright so I feel so having audio trouble 
  Adam go ahead.
Adam_(Tangle_Labs): Thank you um yeah I am looking at these 
  videos and it's amazing how far everybody's come in the progress 
  that's made and just looking forward we were unfortunately we 
  weren't able to participate in this event but progression I 
  think.
Adam_(Tangle_Labs): So if user experience stuff going on and I 
  think that's kind of just taking a step too far too soon maybe 
  looking at multiple credential flows as you just mentioned as 
  well Dimitri revocation is super important and maybe exploring 
  selective disclosure in the different protocols I think those are 
  kind of like the next progressions this this whole back up.
Kaliya Young: 
  https://medium.com/@identitywoman-in-business/new-paper-and-infographic-on-flavors-of-digital-credentials-released-b9b6ec5b95af?source=friends_link&sk=d74dfb20f4750e159b5b259424b7edce
<kaliya_identitywoman> see that paper for understanding the 
  current data format landscape.
Adam_(Tangle_Labs): About it's talked about in pretty much every 
  standards Community I'm a part of it's like this this mysterious 
  thing that nobody can achieve at the moment so I think that's 
  something definitely to discuss but for the next stages I think 
  multiple credential flows is really important like presenting 
  multiple credentials like as a digital CV or.
Adam_(Tangle_Labs):  thing like that.
<kerri_lemoie> Thanks for sharing @kaliya
Adam_(Tangle_Labs): Elective disclosure to choose which parts of 
  which credentials you share that's that's kind of kind of be the 
  future of this technology and it's something I think might be 
  very important to look at these sorts of this sort of stage 
  anyway.
Phil_L_(P1): How about now Dimitri.
<kerri_lemoie> :)
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks yeah and then for what it's worth this 
  this particular plug first required multiple credentials to be 
  presented as a package but you're right there's of course always 
  more room to explore mixing and matching let's see doing who else 
  yes we can yeah welcome back to.
Phil_L_(P1): Third time's a try third time's a charm first of all 
  I wanted to put you put a plus one around render method as a an 
  approach this take took a while for the browser's to come up with 
  CSS which became clearly the approach to rendering on browser 
  environments and I think that render method is sort of the same 
  kind of thing and while it may be early on it seems like the most 
  profitable approach because it doesn't rule out individual 
  wallets from doing their own thing it just gives them an option.
Phil_L_(P1):  to do something in a public and open transparent 
  way to choose.
Phil_L_(P1): Templates for rendering on their own platform and 
  and then customizing it thereafter secondly I'm interested in 
  whether it's still too early but I hope not to include or 
  consider selective disclosure methods for the next time around 
  since it's such an important attribute of user agency or holder 
  agency to be able to choose what they express and what they don't 
  it's ironic that the mdl has got that sort of built-in in their 
  exchange process.
Phil_L_(P1):  but we don't yet.
<kaliya_identitywoman> The credentials have to be SIGNED 
  differently to get selective disclosure.
Phil_L_(P1): That on the credential wallet side for VCS and the 
  last thing I wanted to note was in response to Sharon's comment I 
  think that the one thing that we have and it may be sort of 
  buried in the concept that that Sharon was describing with 
  respect to focusing more on the verifiers but the one thing we 
  have been sort of missing is a focus on the actual employers 
  recept receiving these credentials in a way that they can.
Phil_L_(P1): Primary entry points for job applications of 
  credential applicant people sending credentials as applicants to 
  positions and on the one hand I've heard it said that that's a 
  relatively trivial thing to do but they still have to receive the 
  credential in some fashion and at this point asking them to 
  Simply do it by an individual with an a wallet at an employer 
  it's probably not the most effective approach so I'd be very 
  interested in that particular.
Phil_L_(P1):  Allure elephant in the room which is Howard their 
  stacks of.
Phil_L_(P1): He actually getting into the hands of employers in a 
  way they can use it you on the platforms that they currently use 
  for aggregating applications thanks.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Phil see anyone else.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right well and we are getting towards the 
  top of the hour and we would like to leave people few minutes 
  between calls.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So any last thoughts of words.
Kerri Lemoie:  No thank you for the discussion everyone really 
  appreciate this and we'll stay in touch and keep working together 
  on this.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks again Carrie will see you as.
<sharon_leu> Thanks, all!
Dmitri Zagidulin:  As an attendee cheers all bye.
<phil_l_(p1)> Another round of applause to Kerri!
