[2021-09-21T15:57:36.313Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-09-21T15:58:51.497Z]	<Steve_Gance>	present+
[2021-09-21T15:59:00.726Z]	<jakobp>	present+
[2021-09-21T15:59:31.429Z]	<Jakob_Povsic>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:00:42.199Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:00:44.274Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:00:49.291Z]	<Wayne>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:00:50.158Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:00:52.795Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:01:05.457Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:01:10.807Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:01:11.879Z]	<Tomislav_Markovski>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:01:18.689Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:01:27.956Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:01:29.002Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:01:42.525Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:01:55.175Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Sep/0074.html
[2021-09-21T16:02:01.837Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:02:15.181Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:02:21.350Z]	<Kristina>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:02:28.179Z]	<Geun-Hyung_>	=
[2021-09-21T16:02:35.609Z]	<Geun-Hyung_>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:03:02.947Z]	<cel>	 /me 2021
[2021-09-21T16:03:04.137Z]	<TallTed>	2021! :-)
[2021-09-21T16:03:09.509Z]	<markus_sabadello>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:03:17.578Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:03:23.429Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:03:35.148Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:03:39.840Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Join the CCG: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-09-21T16:04:06.063Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Minutes archive: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-09-21T16:04:20.472Z]	<tayken>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:04:32.713Z]	<Wayne>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:04:46.475Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:04:46.650Z]	<Kim>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:04:50.859Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q-
[2021-09-21T16:04:53.417Z]	<Mike_Jones>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:04:58.320Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+ a note about you to say
[2021-09-21T16:05:02.067Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:05:02.644Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q-
[2021-09-21T16:05:18.908Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:05:49.887Z]	<selfissued>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:06:03.427Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:06:11.712Z]	<Steve_Gance>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:06:45.531Z]	<Kim>	I am here but I've paid my dues maintaining the scribing infrastructure for years
[2021-09-21T16:07:26.815Z]	<Steve_Gance>	scribe+
[2021-09-21T16:07:28.131Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Scribe: Steve_gance
[2021-09-21T16:07:44.793Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions?
[2021-09-21T16:08:18.790Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2021-09-21T16:08:19.840Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:08:22.771Z]	<mprorock>	https://www.regulations.gov/document/DHS-2020-0028-0001
[2021-09-21T16:08:25.925Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack mprorock
[2021-09-21T16:09:28.667Z]	<Steve_Gance>	mprorock: comment period for min standards for driver licenses for federal agencies (DHS) extended to Oct. 18, relevant to DIDS, etc. getting VCs out in broader usage.
[2021-09-21T16:10:09.637Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Oct. 12-14 is IIW, pay attention, anyone plan to speak?
[2021-09-21T16:10:46.966Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	TPAC Breakouts: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/210
[2021-09-21T16:11:11.897Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Details a TPAC breakout session: https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2021/SessionIdeas
[2021-09-21T16:11:34.770Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Announcement: tpac is coming up, Oct. 26 presentation, tpac put an announcement for breakouts, details at link, Oct. 18-22 is breakout week
[2021-09-21T16:12:24.185Z]	<David_Lehn>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:12:31.399Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	Explain abbreviations for non-regular participants? E.g. DHS = Department of Homeland Security, IIW = Internet Identity Workshop, TPAC = Technical Plenary Advisory Committee.
[2021-09-21T16:12:33.990Z]	<Steve_Gance>	CCG chairs have discussed one-on-one Q&A sessions. Others interested in developing breakouts? comment on CG thread
[2021-09-21T16:12:45.613Z]	<mprorock>	+1 markus, thanks
[2021-09-21T16:13:09.103Z]	<Steve_Gance>	CCG have added item for consensus process....
[2021-09-21T16:13:12.412Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Consensus in community reports: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/212
[2021-09-21T16:13:27.556Z]	<Steve_Gance>	in community reports (see link)
[2021-09-21T16:14:19.825Z]	<Steve_Gance>	once deliverable report is in final stage, want people to review and have community response, both objections and support.
[2021-09-21T16:14:47.972Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Chairs believe this will help reports follow consensus process, but also allow more diverse viewpoints.
[2021-09-21T16:15:02.995Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Also allows more transparency and broader participation
[2021-09-21T16:15:09.629Z]	<mprorock>	nb: good final point to add sections that state "some members of the community...."
[2021-09-21T16:15:18.720Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Topic: VC JWT Interop Test Artifact Repo
[2021-09-21T16:15:20.134Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:15:35.588Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/198
[2021-09-21T16:15:40.453Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Orie
[2021-09-21T16:15:51.989Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Six work items
[2021-09-21T16:16:03.382Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:16:52.768Z]	<Steve_Gance>	discussion about VC data model, its compatibility with other data models. Talk of setting up repo but that's on hold for now as we discuss related aspects.
[2021-09-21T16:17:10.301Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Heather: Should we note this as a proposed work item?
[2021-09-21T16:17:40.194Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:17:48.228Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Juan_C
[2021-09-21T16:17:52.561Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Orio: Recommend leaving as proposed work item. Don't create a repo now if it will be empty, do it latter.
[2021-09-21T16:18:18.928Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:18:29.657Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Diff item is like a sprint, needs to be done in 3 months. New items will probably arise. Not on hold indefinitely, but 3 months max.
[2021-09-21T16:18:52.338Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Do we need to check in December or Jan? Yes
[2021-09-21T16:18:59.033Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Topic: Drawing the line on DID Methods in/out of CCG Scope
[2021-09-21T16:19:44.502Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Chairs have had discussion on in/out of scope: don't include every DID method in scope. What is criteria to include a DID method?
[2021-09-21T16:20:23.098Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:20:29.097Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Orie
[2021-09-21T16:20:32.789Z]	<Steve_Gance>	A DID method that supports community goals, across community, or multiple people within community working on them, then these would be included in scope. But we still need more guidance on what is or is not in scope.
[2021-09-21T16:20:44.442Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:21:29.625Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack mprorock
[2021-09-21T16:21:41.216Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Last time primary objection was whether it relied on blockchain. Two methods do not rely on blockchain. Suggest focusing attention on this aspect. These criteria should be applied equally: regardless of whether these rely on blockchain, these should be accepted.
[2021-09-21T16:22:07.497Z]	<rgrant>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:22:09.675Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:22:15.251Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:22:27.756Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:22:32.770Z]	<Steve_Gance>	There is at least one method, maybe more, that rely on a particular blockchain, versus something that is agnostic to particular blockchains. For consistency sake, might want to clarify this.
[2021-09-21T16:22:37.098Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Markus_S
[2021-09-21T16:22:38.174Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:22:41.575Z]	<rgrant>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:23:10.411Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Markus: Agree with orie
[2021-09-21T16:23:11.168Z]	<rgrant>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:23:12.989Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Ack Juan_C
[2021-09-21T16:23:21.609Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:23:22.416Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack rgrant
[2021-09-21T16:23:26.313Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:23:37.173Z]	<Orie>	+1 Ryan :)
[2021-09-21T16:23:43.994Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:24:04.981Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Ryan: picking what is in the community or out for the technology is not the right approach. It should be out of the community to say why something should or should not be included.
[2021-09-21T16:24:10.111Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Juan_C
[2021-09-21T16:24:22.340Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:24:55.186Z]	<Orie>	+1 Blockchain / KERI / IPFS / etc... we should not discriminate against technologies in this community :)
[2021-09-21T16:25:57.485Z]	<mprorock>	q+ to note that I don't believe anyone is saying to kick out any specific techs, there are plenty of good items that use blockchains or DLTs in general, and those items are key for the CCG - question at hand is more do we want to promote a DID method that requires only on DLT, or work on items that cross technologies, are tech agnostic, or are web specific
[2021-09-21T16:26:08.616Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Kerri_L
[2021-09-21T16:26:30.172Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	+1, excluding specific technologies makes no sense
[2021-09-21T16:27:04.375Z]	<Orie>	^ especially if such discrimination is part of blocking "standards track".... DIDs and VCs started as community work items...
[2021-09-21T16:27:12.435Z]	<mprorock>	@markus exactly - we absolutely do NOT want to exclude ANY specific technologies
[2021-09-21T16:27:43.800Z]	<cel>	Heather_Vescent: for DID methods to be developed in the CCG, they need to support community goals, and have multiple people who want to work on it
[2021-09-21T16:27:59.004Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie - that is the key thing, we want to make sure that we are promoting items that can become standards track if possible
[2021-09-21T16:28:14.196Z]	<cel>	... If multiple people want to work in the community on a DID method that supports community goals but does use a work item, ... if approved it would be a legit work item.
[2021-09-21T16:28:25.630Z]	<cel>	... It is a scope question.
[2021-09-21T16:28:44.215Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:28:55.206Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Heathr_V
[2021-09-21T16:28:55.387Z]	<TallTed>	scribe+ cel
[2021-09-21T16:28:56.550Z]	<cel>	Heather_Vescent: should have a separate conversation, or in a GitHub thread...
[2021-09-21T16:29:06.278Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack mprorock
[2021-09-21T16:29:14.680Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack mprorock
[2021-09-21T16:29:18.711Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:29:23.103Z]	<Kim>	I don't see any reason to modify the usual criteria -- if at least 2 people from different orgs offer to lead it, then it's good
[2021-09-21T16:29:25.348Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Heather_V
[2021-09-21T16:29:29.102Z]	<cel>	mprorock: To clarify, for potential clarification... How should we be thinking of work items as a community... We do not want to block specific techs...
[2021-09-21T16:29:43.815Z]	<cel>	... If leveraging bitcoin, cool, seeing approaches apply to multiple things... that should be clear.
[2021-09-21T16:29:53.877Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:30:03.976Z]	<cel>	... Other thing to be careful about... when we are looking at specific work items... is it working on something that can ultimately become a standards item?
[2021-09-21T16:30:06.556Z]	<rgrant>	I don't think that we want to "be careful" but that we want to foster innovation.
[2021-09-21T16:30:20.894Z]	<cel>	... Doesn't have to necessarily, but let's get the conversation going around the criteria, as a community.
[2021-09-21T16:30:32.426Z]	<cel>	... CCG is getting more active - more work item proposals - need to evaluate.
[2021-09-21T16:30:36.773Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Topic: did.pkh
[2021-09-21T16:30:38.202Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/200
[2021-09-21T16:30:44.378Z]	<Orie>	I think we want more did methods in the ccg, not less, especially if doing so, raises the bar for the method... https://w3c-ccg.github.io/didm-btcr/
[2021-09-21T16:30:51.049Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Topic: did.tz
[2021-09-21T16:30:52.254Z]	<cel>	Heather_Vescent: Let's talk about these two DID methods, did:pkh and did:tz
[2021-09-21T16:30:58.109Z]	<Steve_Gance>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:31:00.071Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ttps://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/202
[2021-09-21T16:31:27.330Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/202
[2021-09-21T16:31:35.798Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:31:40.873Z]	<cel>	... I think I am kind of reiterating the obvious, based on the criteria stated, based on the criteria (we, chairs) agreed on as a guideline, these would be approved... and we would request did:tz to be withdrawn.
[2021-09-21T16:32:06.934Z]	<rgrant>	Ahh, there it is, "rehome" my DID Method.
[2021-09-21T16:32:15.181Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:32:17.572Z]	<cel>	Heather_Vescent: Need to know if we can re-home some items...
[2021-09-21T16:32:22.658Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Wayne_C
[2021-09-21T16:32:31.136Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	+1 to apply it consistently
[2021-09-21T16:32:34.060Z]	<cel>	wayne: I would request that whatever is agreed upon is applied consistently upon work items, even if approved before.
[2021-09-21T16:32:36.881Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-09-21T16:32:40.276Z]	<Orie>	moving community work out of the community seems pretty bad form....
[2021-09-21T16:32:52.060Z]	<cel>	... If accepted I would like to see the same kind of designation applied to previous ones... did:v1, did:btcr, maybe others.
[2021-09-21T16:33:19.614Z]	<cel>	Heather_Vescent: Good points... we could take a "grandfathering" state, those are there and have been in the community for a long time, and not accepting the other ones...
[2021-09-21T16:33:29.430Z]	<Orie>	why are we considering "not accepting work items the community wants to work on" ?
[2021-09-21T16:33:35.437Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:33:36.404Z]	<cel>	... Wayne, did you have comments on the proposal to accept pkh as a work item and withdraw did:tz?
[2021-09-21T16:33:48.378Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:33:48.477Z]	<dmitriz>	(incidentally, we should probably not use 'grandfather clause' terminology, and substitute with 'legacy')
[2021-09-21T16:33:51.469Z]	<cel>	Heather_Vescent: To answer that... it has to do with scope.
[2021-09-21T16:33:54.990Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Juan_C
[2021-09-21T16:34:11.223Z]	<cel>	bumblefudge: How does one withdraw a work item? Just close the issue?
[2021-09-21T16:34:26.249Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:34:26.976Z]	<cel>	Heather: You can make a comment, ask for withdrawal; it can be acknowledged by chairs and then closed.
[2021-09-21T16:34:37.394Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	+1 to dmitriz
[2021-09-21T16:34:42.013Z]	<Tomislav_Markovski>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:34:45.670Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Topic: BBS+ signature scheme for LDP using JSON pointer normalization
[2021-09-21T16:34:46.962Z]	<cel>	Heather_Vescent: Moving forward. Next work item: BBS Signature Scheme
[2021-09-21T16:34:58.473Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/204
[2021-09-21T16:35:01.370Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:35:09.297Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Tomislav_M
[2021-09-21T16:35:17.476Z]	<cel>	Tomislav_Markovski: This proposal deals with extending the BBS signature scheme with an additional normalization algorithm, JSON pointer normalization.
[2021-09-21T16:35:31.342Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:36:00.068Z]	<cel>	... This is interesting because BBS uses a multi-message payload to sign documents, currently it is obtained using JSON-LD processing (URDNA2015). This proposal is to use JSON Pointer Normalization instead, to merge the document into a form usable in a multi-message format.
[2021-09-21T16:36:23.928Z]	<cel>	... JSON Pointer is on IETF standards track... looks similar to JSON Path... A complex JSON document can be flattened into a single JSON document.
[2021-09-21T16:36:42.759Z]	<cel>	... The POC document shows how a document can be converted... Whether it is JSON-LD compliant or not.
[2021-09-21T16:37:08.320Z]	<cel>	... The linked data proof specs specifies some terms around canonicalization algorithm, which can be used to specify how the document was canonicalized before signing, in addition to signature algorithm and other items.
[2021-09-21T16:37:21.447Z]	<cel>	... Thus far this has been the RDF canonicalization, with the exception of JCS...
[2021-09-21T16:37:32.744Z]	<cel>	... Using this, the signature suite could be extended...
[2021-09-21T16:37:52.066Z]	<cel>	... Because JSON Pointer operates on JSON documents, it works on both embedded and wrapped signatures.
[2021-09-21T16:38:00.586Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:38:01.049Z]	<cel>	... So it can be used with different signature suites.
[2021-09-21T16:38:20.273Z]	<cel>	Heather_Vescent: Question: is this work in conjunction with DIF activities? How do you plan to coordinate?
[2021-09-21T16:38:36.916Z]	<cel>	... There are no work items in DIF right now that are relevant to this specific work item - the linked data proofs.
[2021-09-21T16:38:54.513Z]	<cel>	... However, there efforts to bring this... to JOSE. No dependency in required work.
[2021-09-21T16:39:03.789Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:39:05.512Z]	<cel>	Heather_Vescent: Great. It looks like you have hit all of the requirements.
[2021-09-21T16:39:10.073Z]	<cel>	... Any other questions from the community?
[2021-09-21T16:39:27.209Z]	<cel>	... I think we'll give this the 7-day review and then can open it as a work item.
[2021-09-21T16:39:35.443Z]	<cel>	... Thanks for coming today, and for being brief and on-point.
[2021-09-21T16:39:35.866Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Topic: VC Guide
[2021-09-21T16:39:48.716Z]	<cel>	... Next: VC Guide. Are Michael Herman or David Chadwick on the call?
[2021-09-21T16:40:02.445Z]	<cel>	... Not seeing either; we'll skip this.
[2021-09-21T16:40:11.362Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Topic: Breakout use cases for VC HTTP API
[2021-09-21T16:40:12.070Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:40:19.613Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/207
[2021-09-21T16:40:24.003Z]	<cel>	... Juan, Eric?
[2021-09-21T16:40:39.439Z]	<cel>	Juan: I am here, and involved with those use cases. Eric couldn't make it.
[2021-09-21T16:40:47.792Z]	<cel>	... Need a new repo. Trying to migrate to ReSpec.
[2021-09-21T16:40:58.572Z]	<cel>	... It's just to have a separate repo that can be linked from the VC HTTP API.
[2021-09-21T16:41:09.854Z]	<cel>	... It would still be discussed on those calls by that group, just need a separate repo.
[2021-09-21T16:41:16.908Z]	<cel>	Heather: Can you tell us what is the work item?
[2021-09-21T16:41:45.074Z]	<cel>	Juan: The VC HTTP API Working Group started publishing more non-normative stuff. It was previously just a Swagger Doc that had been designed by some CCG companies and participants.
[2021-09-21T16:41:59.932Z]	<cel>	... As part of trying to make it more intelligible... business partners needed more context...
[2021-09-21T16:42:10.887Z]	<Steve_Gance>	present+
[2021-09-21T16:42:27.853Z]	<cel>	... That weekly meeting is largely about technical stuff. There is a parallel work track, people working to make use cases supported by that API be explicit so you can point to use cases from the main meetings.
[2021-09-21T16:42:31.289Z]	<Steve_Gance>	(scribe lost internet for 10 minutes)
[2021-09-21T16:43:08.786Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Heather: what is deliverable going to be, Word, respec?
[2021-09-21T16:43:16.712Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Steve, Cel took over scribe for you.
[2021-09-21T16:43:20.389Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Google doc now, will be moved to respec.
[2021-09-21T16:43:20.940Z]	<cel>	+1
[2021-09-21T16:43:26.033Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:43:29.919Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Juan_C
[2021-09-21T16:43:33.567Z]	<Steve_Gance>	(thanks cel)
[2021-09-21T16:43:47.193Z]	<mprorock>	Off Topic: added an issue to track and have discussion around scope for CCG work items, etc - e.g. anything related to credentials, etc - https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/214

please do add comments and feedback as I noticed there was a lot of active discussion on the topic - the Chairs are looking for guidance from the community
[2021-09-21T16:43:52.096Z]	<cel>	Heather: Do you have a repo, or chairs need to create it?
[2021-09-21T16:43:57.862Z]	<cel>	Juan: I think Eric had one...
[2021-09-21T16:44:01.857Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Is there a repo to transfer over, or do chairs need to create a new one?
[2021-09-21T16:44:19.771Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	will do in 3 hours, thanks!
[2021-09-21T16:44:20.559Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Not sure, will check whether a new repo is needed.
[2021-09-21T16:44:30.593Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Topic: Merkle Disclosure Proof 2021
[2021-09-21T16:44:35.203Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:44:35.905Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/209
[2021-09-21T16:44:43.855Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Orie
[2021-09-21T16:45:12.110Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:46:07.912Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Orie: BBS+ JsonLD+ suite is the first, but concern was it was too much of a snowflake. This work item proposes another method based on Merkle proof, as well as JWS. Work item is there to help us clarify selective disclosure interfaces.
[2021-09-21T16:46:10.937Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:46:11.064Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:46:18.553Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack mprorock
[2021-09-21T16:46:55.729Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:47:02.472Z]	<Steve_Gance>	mprorock: part of motivation: we always want an alternative to being tied to one crytographic methods. Select disclosure is a big issue.
[2021-09-21T16:47:09.917Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Markus_S
[2021-09-21T16:47:13.833Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:47:17.955Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Markus: How does this relate to previous work item?
[2021-09-21T16:47:23.101Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Orie
[2021-09-21T16:47:52.521Z]	<mprorock>	+1 layer / interface compat with other selective disclosure methods
[2021-09-21T16:48:00.222Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:48:04.520Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Its related because it allows swapping the cryptographic layer, while still doing the selective disclosure.
[2021-09-21T16:48:22.597Z]	<Steve_Gance>	It is not related in the sense that this relies on boring Merkle or JWS
[2021-09-21T16:48:43.785Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:49:02.734Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Heather: Looks like you have the requirements for a work item. Wait the 7 days and we can open a work item.
[2021-09-21T16:49:08.432Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:49:12.095Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	+1
[2021-09-21T16:49:18.899Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack mprorock
[2021-09-21T16:49:18.823Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Topic: Revisit scope for DID methods & did.pkh & did.tz
[2021-09-21T16:49:23.845Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Heather: Let's pick up discussion of DID methods.
[2021-09-21T16:49:58.955Z]	<Steve_Gance>	mprorock: let's make sure we are properly capturing the will of the community.
[2021-09-21T16:50:10.524Z]	<mprorock>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/214
[2021-09-21T16:50:12.684Z]	<Orie>	probably not...
[2021-09-21T16:50:21.803Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Heather: can we decouple the score discussion from the discussion of the two DID methods?
[2021-09-21T16:50:21.852Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:50:25.263Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie - tightly coupled
[2021-09-21T16:50:27.646Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Orie
[2021-09-21T16:50:38.211Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:51:01.193Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Scope question is being used to answer the DID question, so the scope question is critical to be addressed before we accept any more work items.
[2021-09-21T16:51:08.020Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Heather_V
[2021-09-21T16:52:09.407Z]	<Orie>	Please leave your comments here: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/214
[2021-09-21T16:52:12.425Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Heather: I see it as being more flexible. I don't see the scope question being resolved easily. At a gut level it often seems what should be in scope and what shouldn't. Criteria for developing DID methods are generally what is supported by the community...
[2021-09-21T16:52:34.045Z]	<Kim>	who had the concern?
[2021-09-21T16:52:42.849Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	^
[2021-09-21T16:52:48.666Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	q+ to talk about community goals served by both DID-BTCR and DID-TZ :)
[2021-09-21T16:52:52.262Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	manu, i think
[2021-09-21T16:52:55.637Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Heather: The concerns usually have been raised in a previous calls. A concern that if we accept every DID method we would be overwhelmed.
[2021-09-21T16:52:55.774Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:53:20.820Z]	<Kim>	I think we should have that person write up their concern. this is a huge deviation from how we've accepted work items in the past
[2021-09-21T16:53:30.904Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:53:40.334Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Juan_C
[2021-09-21T16:53:42.306Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Heather: To me, the community goals can be addressed, maybe scope is irrelevant. Participation from multiple companies, is that a sufficient requirement for scope?
[2021-09-21T16:53:48.708Z]	<rgrant>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:54:19.323Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	+1 to your point Juan
[2021-09-21T16:54:31.706Z]	<Kim>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:54:58.315Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Jaun: Part of the problem is that businesses don't address the concern, e.g., goggle cloud wants to make something that doesn't work for anyone else. Concern that multiple companies can also do things that are too narrowly scoped to benefit the larger community...
[2021-09-21T16:55:10.005Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:55:16.475Z]	<rgrant>	q-
[2021-09-21T16:55:19.340Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:55:24.163Z]	<rgrant>	q+
[2021-09-21T16:55:44.729Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	OK, so it's clear we need to decide on scope first, then review these work items.
[2021-09-21T16:56:01.610Z]	<mprorock>	would like to yield time to wayne
[2021-09-21T16:56:02.948Z]	<mprorock>	q-
[2021-09-21T16:56:10.366Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Juan: The intention is to have something that would be generally useful. Proposers of (multiple technologies) have usually been trying to benefit entire community.
[2021-09-21T16:56:19.152Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	I was wrong in thinking we could decide on these work items with the non-specific guidance at this time.
[2021-09-21T16:56:21.150Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Kim
[2021-09-21T16:56:56.761Z]	<Orie>	playing games with "rehoming work" is a slippery slope that will fracture the community and cause needless pain... the scope of ccg work should be limited only by the tools we have at our disposal... not political or economic interests of companies or non profits or governments.
[2021-09-21T16:56:58.518Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	it wasn't a concern about accepting work items.
[2021-09-21T16:57:14.297Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T16:57:16.451Z]	<mprorock>	+1 issue opened to track any concerns
[2021-09-21T16:57:30.983Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kim: BTCR (?) should be retired, it was important, but there is a bigger concern: we should have the person who has a concern about how we accept work items should write a concrete proposal. Otherwise, this discussion tends to block the community work. I don't think it's clear that a substantial concern has been raised.
[2021-09-21T16:57:34.374Z]	<mprorock>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/214
[2021-09-21T16:57:41.328Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Juan + Wayne, can you add your intent to the github thread?
[2021-09-21T16:58:12.609Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack rgrant
[2021-09-21T16:58:13.140Z]	<Steve_Gance>	mprorock: DIDTC's implementation is formally verified, we wanted to bring that work to the group.
[2021-09-21T16:58:27.895Z]	<Kim>	Just to be clear, not saying btcr should be retired, just saying that if anything, it should be retired due to inactivity, NOT because it uses the bitcoin blockchain
[2021-09-21T16:58:47.660Z]	<Kim>	And Ryan's comment is addressing the inactivity concerns
[2021-09-21T16:59:06.930Z]	<Steve_Gance>	BTCR has a 2.0 that we are working on. We are in the middle of scheduling additional work. Some of the people on this call are active on this DID method...
[2021-09-21T16:59:32.272Z]	<Steve_Gance>	I don't think BTCR being here is a burden.
[2021-09-21T16:59:49.599Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	i think that BTC might be quite different from ETH and TZ in that it doesn't have development funds, which make feel even further from the allegation of being specific to a bundle of shared economic interests
[2021-09-21T16:59:54.388Z]	<mprorock>	+1 Heather
[2021-09-21T17:00:03.304Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Heather: Sorry, I don't think that BTCR is under attack...
[2021-09-21T17:00:21.603Z]	<Orie>	+1 to not doing anything that fractures the community.
[2021-09-21T17:00:29.902Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	did:collusion
[2021-09-21T17:00:31.929Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Heather: Maybe we don't need to do anything, just do the 7-day on these two DID processes and let the process play out...
[2021-09-21T17:00:42.529Z]	<Tomislav_Markovski>	present+
[2021-09-21T17:00:43.124Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-09-21T17:00:51.620Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q-
[2021-09-21T17:00:51.941Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Wayne_C
[2021-09-21T17:00:53.174Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Heather: Then we can deal with any collusion of DID methods as they arise.
[2021-09-21T17:01:02.681Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack mprorock
[2021-09-21T17:01:32.890Z]	<rgrant>	Not just across companies, but across DID Methods!
[2021-09-21T17:01:45.614Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-09-21T17:01:57.597Z]	<Orie>	sorry gonna need to drop, please don't decide to exclude folks who want to work together while i'm gone ; )
[2021-09-21T17:01:59.140Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Mprorock: An important note: One of the benefits of the CCG has been to foster inoperability in a IP-protected space. Let's continue to make this a place to move this work forward, across DID methods...
[2021-09-21T17:02:34.221Z]	<Steve_Gance>	My inclination would be along an inclusivity path. There is a lot of discussion that could happen, let's move it to github and bring it up as needed.
[2021-09-21T17:02:59.458Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Heather: I'll move these two issues to the 7-day process.
[2021-09-21T17:03:14.894Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	thx steve! and charles!
