[2022-07-12T14:37:13.217Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:30:43.378Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:30:43.378Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:30:43.379Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:30:50.223Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:31:17.281Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:31:20.614Z]	<nis>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:33:40.830Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:33:41.133Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-07-12T17:33:41.134Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2022-07-12T17:33:47.751Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Can anyone hear me.
[2022-07-12T17:34:06.222Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Alright hello everyone and welcome to the weekly Trace interop meeting agenda for this week is Trace interop followed by Trace vocab.
[2022-07-12T17:34:21.789Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Agenda: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/AGENDA.md
[2022-07-12T17:34:24.244Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Believe we don't you describe today because the CG bot seems to be working correctly so we'll get right into it let me post the agenda.
[2022-07-12T17:34:29.731Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Topic: IP Note, Agenda Review, Scribe Selection
[2022-07-12T17:34:52.410Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So this nose begins with IP know anyone can participate in these calls however all substantive contribution contributors to any ccg work items must be members of the ccg with full IP our agreements signed information about and links to required license agreements can be found in the meeting agenda and they're just like too much at the first.
[2022-07-12T17:35:01.987Z]	<Vivien>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:35:15.855Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Day I believe is a carryover from last week where we're going to be working on archiving and Publishing the meeting notes I believe that in order to do this properly we need someone who has write permission to the ccg repo is there anyone on this call that has that.
[2022-07-12T17:35:26.518Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Order my food.
[2022-07-12T17:35:29.254Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Yep yeah which one specifically.
[2022-07-12T17:35:36.880Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This hang on let me let me just grab a link to that for you.
[2022-07-12T17:35:37.033Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:35:52.343Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Bear with me one minute and I look at that.
[2022-07-12T17:36:05.914Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg
[2022-07-12T17:36:09.057Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It in the chat window.
[2022-07-12T17:36:28.881Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: That's not her if I think maybe you put a link to the orc it's off maybe did you mean the meetings repo is that the one you're talking about.
[2022-07-12T17:36:30.355Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: You're right I apologize yes I did.
[2022-07-12T17:36:43.356Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I do not believe I have my doubts you said that one of them or you know if you have it or anyone else.
[2022-07-12T17:36:57.344Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: I'm fairly certain I have access to every repo in the w3c CG what you're looking for the meetings repo correct.
[2022-07-12T17:36:58.684Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: That is correct.
[2022-07-12T17:37:04.272Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: And paste your GitHub handles into the chat and I will give you access.
[2022-07-12T17:37:06.134Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	brownoxford
[2022-07-12T17:37:06.371Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	@mkhraisha
[2022-07-12T17:37:19.039Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	BenjaminMoe
[2022-07-12T17:37:25.135Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	rhofvendahl
[2022-07-12T17:37:38.708Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: All right Chris you have access.
[2022-07-12T17:37:43.192Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: And then you're going to get access.
[2022-07-12T17:37:55.217Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Russell you're going to get access.
[2022-07-12T17:37:58.577Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Reading great thanks.
[2022-07-12T17:37:58.850Z]	<Vivien>	vivienfan
[2022-07-12T17:38:01.940Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I believe I just lost audio.
[2022-07-12T17:38:07.765Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Vivian you're going to get access.
[2022-07-12T17:38:24.776Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: And I don't think I got a good getting it now.
[2022-07-12T17:38:36.823Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: You're all able to maintain Cece.
[2022-07-12T17:38:48.058Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: For those of you who Wanna check if you have access you can just refresh and you'll see a settings option as well.
[2022-07-12T17:38:53.864Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Sorry got audio just dropped for a moment I'm back.
[2022-07-12T17:39:08.855Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Checking to see that I have settings.
[2022-07-12T17:39:35.190Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Corey when you say we refer we should refresh the page and we see a settings options where exactly would that be.
[2022-07-12T17:39:42.813Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: It should notify you at the top and get Hub you've got like a new.
[2022-07-12T17:39:49.063Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Got it there was more second.
[2022-07-12T17:39:54.465Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/meetings
[2022-07-12T17:39:59.784Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: And the specific repo we're all trying to get access to or this one.
[2022-07-12T17:40:44.069Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay I can confirm that I now have access so let us continue I'm going to go ahead and share my screen for this get to know.
[2022-07-12T17:41:04.873Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Please let me know when you can see my screen.
[2022-07-12T17:41:28.092Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay so let's go ahead and go through the processes documented here the first one is to visit the Scribe tool traceability select the day of the call and retrieve the real logs okay.
[2022-07-12T17:41:33.762Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So this is traceability that call was on the 5th.
[2022-07-12T17:41:40.778Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And she are the locks okay next step is to publish the minutes.
[2022-07-12T17:42:13.031Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So there's this is basically the root of the w3c G meetings repo the link that we're after is near the bottom there are two methods of publishing listed here one is via the GitHub interface which is the one that we are going to try right now so the first step is to download.
[2022-07-12T17:42:21.220Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: The IRC log to a file called ircd long okay.
[2022-07-12T17:42:35.057Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Copy that I'm going to put that into a folder on desktop it with me while you do that I'll screen.
[2022-07-12T17:43:03.682Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Fleets second step is to download the audio give it a quick listen and save it to a file called audio dot o gg there's a download audio button do that now.
[2022-07-12T17:43:12.409Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: The audio works and I'm downloading.
[2022-07-12T17:43:22.719Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: That does not get downloaded with the name audio dot o gg so when that completes I will need to rename it.
[2022-07-12T17:43:25.414Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Sorry I'm gonna have to drop by we'll be back.
[2022-07-12T17:43:38.457Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: My connection is absolutely horrible right now so I'm going to cancel this but I actually do this previously so I have to file worries.
[2022-07-12T17:43:54.934Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And the next step regarding people that Json I believe this applies only to the primary.
[2022-07-12T17:43:59.355Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: CG repo meetings not necessarily to ours.
[2022-07-12T17:44:15.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So the way that we publish is go to the GitHub interface at file specify a folder directory and file name.
[2022-07-12T17:44:20.314Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So let's do that.
[2022-07-12T17:44:47.848Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I'll create a new file just to choose an appropriate suffix traceability was already in use and I believe that applies to interop and vocab so we'll continue to use that in the file is going to be.
[2022-07-12T17:44:52.332Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Each group text is accurate.
[2022-07-12T17:45:19.857Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Script attacks okay in the contents of group dot text is what is going to be used by the auto publisher as a subject to the email that goes out to the group this purpose I think I suggest using the same text that we just used for replacement to remove.
[2022-07-12T17:45:25.860Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:45:31.816Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Forget it wasn't leaving replacement the text I suggest open API for interoperable traceability is everyone or does anyone object to that as a subject line.
[2022-07-12T17:45:38.028Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think last week we did a traceable we woke up.
[2022-07-12T17:45:40.425Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Sorry traceability vocab.
[2022-07-12T17:46:01.528Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: We could also just call it like trace of the bike traceability called or something somewhere that I don't think we need to be kept super specific on each week to make this more streamlined her no but.
[2022-07-12T17:46:09.226Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Or or labeling it might help us remember since or we could call it something generic I'm okay with either or.
[2022-07-12T17:46:10.444Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: That's her I mean let's let's try it again and see how that goes let's try the Atlanta at work.
[2022-07-12T17:46:13.931Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Sorry can you say that again please.
[2022-07-12T17:46:22.895Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:46:22.953Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Yeah let's give it a non-generic name 14 Trace one provoked Ivan see how that works and if we find it's annoying we could just remove the bedroom.
[2022-07-12T17:46:29.901Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Your rights I thank you.
[2022-07-12T17:46:30.122Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Last week was vocab not in trouble so it should be traceability.
[2022-07-12T17:46:40.446Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I will go ahead let's see just confirm 75 commit.
[2022-07-12T17:46:48.632Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Next step is to upload the log and audio files.
[2022-07-12T17:46:55.636Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It's pretty easy so had file upload files.
[2022-07-12T17:47:01.126Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: She is desktop.
[2022-07-12T17:47:18.107Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I'm uploading currently.
[2022-07-12T17:47:54.757Z]	<TallTed>	s/Believe we don't you describe today/Believe we don't need to scribe today/
[2022-07-12T17:48:04.315Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: We'll run some workflows that will email this out and create an email login index.html those may be delayed by 10 minutes so I don't think we should wait for those we can check at the end of the call to make sure that happens and there's a note in here that indicates that these files must be smaller than 25 Meg's in order to do this via the GitHub interface so in the event that we have files larger than that we'll need to check out the repo add the files.
[2022-07-12T17:48:04.685Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy:  locally and then commit and push as one would.
[2022-07-12T17:48:07.112Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: For code editing.
[2022-07-12T17:48:12.637Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Let's check our folder.
[2022-07-12T17:48:33.424Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay here are the files appear to have been committee correctly so I think that completes this task with anyone like to see any more information or work done on this before we move forward.
[2022-07-12T17:48:39.023Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I had a quick question was writing about like people that Jason I think I remember seeing that somewhere.
[2022-07-12T17:48:49.734Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: There was something about people that Json but I believe that applies to this top level or a top level people that Json.
[2022-07-12T17:48:58.746Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Like I think the the people that Jason's have the names of like the screen names of the people who appear in the IRC log.
[2022-07-12T17:49:19.026Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah updating the people that Json file file lives here you update the people that Jason 51 there's a new person the meeting if you don't know what the person Json file you can use fire browse command F find the name so does that mean that we need to add ourselves to this file.
[2022-07-12T17:49:21.159Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Let's take a look at that file and see what's up.
[2022-07-12T17:49:33.858Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay I just.
[2022-07-12T17:49:37.604Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: If I remember there was a way in you did not need to do this I can I'll bring mine own double check on that because I believe this is semi-automated now I think it was done I was a while ago but it wouldn't hurt to do it for the first time a little bit.
[2022-07-12T17:49:43.673Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah but I did a search that I didn't see any of us in there so I just wanted to check for confirmation.
[2022-07-12T17:49:59.423Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I'm happy to add people in here so let's take a look at our.
[2022-07-12T17:50:12.352Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-07-12T17:50:12.521Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Let's take a look at the chat log and see who needs to be at it and I can see that the auto generated files are now here so that's good.
[2022-07-12T17:50:19.131Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And it looks like we have.
[2022-07-12T17:50:23.337Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I confirm that myself and we are both on it.
[2022-07-12T17:50:24.604Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Listen People Json.
[2022-07-12T17:50:31.659Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay let's take a look at the history and see if there are any auto commits to this file.
[2022-07-12T17:50:37.604Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I don't see it so it looks like this is Manuel.
[2022-07-12T17:50:41.315Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I guess so.
[2022-07-12T17:50:49.177Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And actually looks like my men it's not on this car.
[2022-07-12T17:50:53.667Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: No no - party sorry.
[2022-07-12T17:50:56.396Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I am I am.
[2022-07-12T17:50:59.610Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It just looks like he's been doing a lot of.
[2022-07-12T17:51:11.350Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: We can do this on my own I don't know I don't know.
[2022-07-12T17:51:21.608Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Let me think man you double-check about this and worst-case scenario you know reach out and ask you guys for your contacts I don't think it needs to be.
[2022-07-12T17:51:25.559Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah we might we might do this as a separate polar cuz I just wanted to draw attention to it.
[2022-07-12T17:51:29.093Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay thank you Ben.
[2022-07-12T17:51:40.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay so that is all that we need to do for that task let's return today's Trace interop.
[2022-07-12T17:52:03.085Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So let's begin with pull requests in order from oldest.
[2022-07-12T17:52:04.858Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
[2022-07-12T17:52:07.550Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: List there's a link to the list.
[2022-07-12T17:52:13.557Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And the oldest pull request we have is actually one of mine.
[2022-07-12T17:52:15.886Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/276
[2022-07-12T17:52:44.528Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Is here and this is a PR to add onboarding workflows and documentation this addresses issue number 261 there's quite a lot of code in this simply because they did it all at once but if we look through the workflows there's two of them the first workflow that I think is relevant is a key rotation workflow.
[2022-07-12T17:53:17.337Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Is on board rotate and what it does is generate a gpg public and private key pair and stores it in the secrets in GitHub secrets and publishes the public version as an ASCII file into the repo and this is going to allow folks who want to register with the test Suite to encrypt their secrets using the public portion of the key email them to a maintainer who will then.
[2022-07-12T17:53:17.663Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy:  run the encrypted.
[2022-07-12T17:53:50.964Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: As workflow that decrypts and processes that sequence file and creates the GitHub secrets that are contained within it using a vendor specific prefix that will be presented as part of the input to the workflow so whichever maintainer is performing this action will decide what the prefix is to that and by prefix I mean something like transmute underscore production underscore etcetera so that the keys have unique names.
[2022-07-12T17:54:11.914Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Into that I made some modifications to the read me the main read me and pointed it to a second read me the documented the process for those willing wishing to participate as well as maintainers that need to process participants encrypted files.
[2022-07-12T17:54:45.703Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: That is correct now maintainer is still required to process the request but this lowers the barrier to entry for folks who want to join by giving them instructions on how to encrypt their secrets and transmit them to us and it also off loads the burden of maintaining the gpg secret and manually creating the GitHub secrets to a workflow.
[2022-07-12T17:55:04.606Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Right so just to confirm the process after this thing is merged is you get an email you download a file you run a script and it adds the person who sent you those Secrets as a vendor to the repo.
[2022-07-12T17:55:25.068Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: That's correct you run a workflow and it will prompt you for inputs and you'll need to generate a GitHub personal access token because the script needs to the workflow needs to run as someone who has permission to modify Secrets which the normal GitHub Runner does not.
[2022-07-12T17:55:47.262Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Why is it that you're doing this with a workflow and not a local user script give them that the maintainer one of us would have to would have I already have GitHub CLI access that's how I said secrets on repos anyway why do we need a GitHub repo for this why is it not just a script that a maintainer runs after receiving an email.
[2022-07-12T17:55:50.307Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: We could certainly do it that way as well you know there's more than one way to skin a cat.
[2022-07-12T17:55:53.201Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Just seems like the.
[2022-07-12T17:56:00.144Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Yeah I mean my preference would be basically you get an email you download a file you run a script you're done.
[2022-07-12T17:56:32.390Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: But you know I haven't tried this workflow piece but just the experience that I've had generating personal access tokens and working with them and remembering to scope them properly and all of that is well yeah it's an extra layer of overhead if all of the maintainers that are processing this stuff run this process and I haven't run it so I mean I don't know what it's like you know maybe it's fine but it seems too.
[2022-07-12T17:56:32.829Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie:  I think you skipped an it may be an.
[2022-07-12T17:56:39.457Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: You skipped right to a more advanced thing which I just don't have it run so I don't know.
[2022-07-12T17:56:44.747Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay you know I'm happy to rework this as an option that is.
[2022-07-12T17:56:47.190Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: A little bit simpler.
[2022-07-12T17:56:53.414Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Let's try it let's let's test it you've already done the work right so if it's if what you've got is better let's all try it now.
[2022-07-12T17:56:57.951Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay so would you suggest we do.
[2022-07-12T17:57:02.294Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Absolutely the sorry.
[2022-07-12T17:57:10.582Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I was going to say would you or would you suggest we merge this and if it doesn't work out we can read it as a script or.
[2022-07-12T17:57:22.554Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Yeah I would suggest we merge it and then each maintainer capable of following these instructions be required to try it you know once or twice before we agree that we're complete with the work.
[2022-07-12T17:57:29.402Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay does anyone object to merging to 76.
[2022-07-12T17:57:34.397Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And I will merge that it.
[2022-07-12T17:57:50.231Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/279
[2022-07-12T17:57:50.398Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay the next pull request is also lying this is 279.
[2022-07-12T17:58:21.949Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And this is recent I did this shortly before the meeting so you may not have all had time to review this but it is a modification to the main read me to detail a little bit more explicitly what should go into hosting a meeting with some links to the various sorted versions of the PRS and issues that we use and also the addition of an agenda file that we can link to in the chat notes.
[2022-07-12T17:58:22.367Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And that will.
[2022-07-12T17:58:30.455Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Process parsed by the process that publishes these notes it will link to in a nice HTML page as well.
[2022-07-12T17:58:39.916Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Does anyone have any questions regarding this pull request or objections to merging it.
[2022-07-12T17:58:46.929Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: You have to approvals from glutinous so far.
[2022-07-12T17:58:56.442Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Cancers no objections I will merge this as well.
[2022-07-12T17:59:05.464Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: United States for pull request on Trace interop.
[2022-07-12T17:59:10.382Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Now we can move to trace vocab for requests.
[2022-07-12T17:59:22.234Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
[2022-07-12T17:59:34.619Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Three these will be done in order from oldest to newest this will be processing in the first one is she 476 then this excuse me for six seven then this is yours would you like to comment.
[2022-07-12T17:59:40.319Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/467
[2022-07-12T18:00:03.999Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay so this is responding to issue 425 where we discussed replacing a references of postal address to place to allow for geo coordinates so I wrote a script that would go through all the credentials and map them out as these mermaid graphs so I get kind of look through and see where different schemas terminated and I found that contact Point reference pulse.
[2022-07-12T18:00:04.624Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Dress so I change this to place.
[2022-07-12T18:00:17.495Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: As a quick note I didn't find any a examples that used also dress on contact point so just be aware of that.
[2022-07-12T18:00:31.701Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay I have three out of four approvals on this one does anyone object to merging 467.
[2022-07-12T18:00:56.432Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Next p r is 4 6 8 or a this one looks like yours would you like to introduce it.
[2022-07-12T18:00:56.836Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/468
[2022-07-12T18:01:25.132Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Sure so 468 is remove the word profile although now I'm confused because I nailed just referred to our work as profile but previously he had asked that we not refer to our work as profile this seems to be a thing that we should do it just makes the word API profile it updates one word you can even see.
[2022-07-12T18:01:25.526Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie:  what it is it's very.
[2022-07-12T18:01:38.289Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Patrice it's very simple change and we have for approvals unless anyone objects I'm going to go ahead and merge this now.
[2022-07-12T18:01:46.059Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay 468 is merged.
[2022-07-12T18:01:54.335Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Next and last is 469 this one is also bends and we will introduce this.
[2022-07-12T18:01:55.977Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/469
[2022-07-12T18:02:26.823Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Sir I'm a lot happier about this one because I think it worked out pretty well this was another response to issue 425 with using place inside of the place which references which allows for both postal address and geo coordinates and mapping it out I found that parcel delivery has a delivery address in origin dress and that gets referenced by bill of lading in bond and several other Freight manifest and Freight manifest certificates so I updated these to use place to.
[2022-07-12T18:02:27.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: For geo coordinates and I believe this is.
[2022-07-12T18:02:27.719Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: That way helpful in terms of.
[2022-07-12T18:02:47.943Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Visualizations and mapping out specifically where on a map these interactions take place and yeah so I went through and updated this added the geo-coordinates examples to the examples and also regenerate the proofs where needed.
[2022-07-12T18:02:59.350Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Excellent looks like we have three out of four approvals does anyone object to merging 469.
[2022-07-12T18:03:07.274Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I've said that I really love the mermaid dresses are very helpful relations.
[2022-07-12T18:03:08.403Z]	<nis>	+1
[2022-07-12T18:03:14.514Z]	<TallTed>	+1 mermaid ftw
[2022-07-12T18:03:24.849Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I was I've been kind reading about like getting to mermaid in finding out the Syntax for these but it's extremely intuitive and I managed to do these by hand after like just 30 minutes so I definitely definitely recommend playing around with mermaid it's tons of fun.
[2022-07-12T18:03:27.736Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Very nice alright I'm urging for 69.
[2022-07-12T18:03:39.599Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: 46 - merch and that is it for PR es en Tres vocab Let Us return to trace interop.
[2022-07-12T18:03:42.432Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And discuss issues.
[2022-07-12T18:03:47.981Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I'm starting this by Lisa recently updated.
[2022-07-12T18:03:48.887Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2022-07-12T18:03:51.478Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: List is here chat.
[2022-07-12T18:04:06.844Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: First one that we have is number 100 after seeing hosted Postman collections or a this one was opened by you I believe science and Miss would you guys care to.
[2022-07-12T18:04:26.704Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Looks like the last comments were in reference to updating the readme.
[2022-07-12T18:05:59.194Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think you tried to pass it off on me and Chris and I think we kind of decline that it fell back to you.
[2022-07-12T18:06:29.604Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: And then self-assigned yourself and you won and he said I think we were kind of discussing of do you want to use the postman's integrated ability to create groups and do this and I think the last comment you made on June first was to add Rod links to the readme to allow people to quickly import them from the readme and that's that's as far as my memory of where this issue left off.
[2022-07-12T18:06:57.330Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I can take this task and see what I can do with it or I can we can take this internally a minute I think we have a couple people who would be interested in this I can get back to you on this.
[2022-07-12T18:07:01.398Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I'm just making a quick note.
[2022-07-12T18:07:20.303Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: That I think it might be a good idea to just kind of quickly restate what the victor condition on this issue is is it just making the collections easier is it making them easier to collaborate or is it making them easier to download and use which one.
[2022-07-12T18:07:34.423Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Can make a quick note.
[2022-07-12T18:07:51.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay the next issue is number 95.
[2022-07-12T18:07:58.541Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/95
[2022-07-12T18:08:07.714Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This one is authenticated VPS or redundant when client credentials access tokens our presence this one was opened by Lori refuse dropped from the call.
[2022-07-12T18:08:19.074Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Last comment we have was by Miss that's suggested we should wait until we have tests in place before we close this.
[2022-07-12T18:08:30.224Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: A couple of closed issues prior to that so I believe that they do not satisfy this is requirement.
[2022-07-12T18:08:40.243Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This also makes it to 10 which is closed.
[2022-07-12T18:08:44.146Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Miss you want to comment on.
[2022-07-12T18:09:14.516Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think this is saying that when using oauth request is already authenticated so there isn't a need to sign over a domain and challenge.
[2022-07-12T18:09:27.077Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I'm do we have shouldn't I think those are covered in the presentation exchange tests I have those tests been added and implement it.
[2022-07-12T18:09:46.450Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: So if they're running and passing in the and the challenge not needing to be signed as formalized and does that mean this issue can be closed.
[2022-07-12T18:10:10.156Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Or if we want to get confirmation from Maury that he feels this has been completed we could put put a note that says pending close and maybe make a note to bring it up next call.
[2022-07-12T18:10:39.360Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I think that the test cases here as far as whether or not o author required are also covered in several of those oauth requirement tickets that I created so we could also reference those and suggest that the requirements are offloaded to separate tickets.
[2022-07-12T18:10:43.323Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think that's that also sounds fair.
[2022-07-12T18:10:51.879Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay let me quickly add a note to that effect.
[2022-07-12T18:11:44.155Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I will add a note indicating the three tickets where these specific authentication requirements are covered and close this one.
[2022-07-12T18:12:00.359Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/176
[2022-07-12T18:12:00.655Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It's okay the next ticket in line is 176 credentials verification response needs additional work.
[2022-07-12T18:12:09.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay this is the one that created.
[2022-07-12T18:12:27.065Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Necessity you have the most recent comments.
[2022-07-12T18:13:14.098Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I think this looks really nice in this I also think we should bubble this up to the VC API.
[2022-07-12T18:13:21.516Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Would you be opposed to raising it on that call or raising it to the room.
[2022-07-12T18:14:02.867Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Yeah I think this is a ready for PR and then we can discuss it and I think once we have that PR if you could give me a link I'll raise that PR as a PR as a sorry as an issue in the VC API calls and we can see if we can get some more inputs and you know maybe there's something we're missing or you know maybe we can get it emerged in Upstream right yeah but absolutely.
[2022-07-12T18:14:26.297Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: The next one is 39 selective disclosure credentials.
[2022-07-12T18:14:26.847Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/39
[2022-07-12T18:14:38.866Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Most recent comments for the past quite a long time is that there's nothing to do here.
[2022-07-12T18:14:46.324Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Is anyone aware of any progress on this issue.
[2022-07-12T18:14:56.279Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: This I have not kept up to be honest so I can't say if there's anything to do or not.
[2022-07-12T18:15:04.903Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I don't come into the continues to be no work to be done here.
[2022-07-12T18:15:15.947Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Next is Number 96.
[2022-07-12T18:15:17.675Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/96
[2022-07-12T18:15:46.013Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Which will certification of in Iraq has conformance this one is blocked by 200 which we actually were able to close off line we should probably discuss that on this call but first the the goal of this ticket is to have each participant.
[2022-07-12T18:15:51.322Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Certify output reports with feces.
[2022-07-12T18:15:58.903Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This one is for race if you wanted to discuss specifics.
[2022-07-12T18:16:11.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Does anyone have any comments on this other than this is no longer blocked.
[2022-07-12T18:16:21.039Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I think if it's no longer blocked we what's the path forward on this it's.
[2022-07-12T18:16:31.570Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Vendor issues a certificate once every X stating that every other vendor has anything or.
[2022-07-12T18:16:43.255Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I believe that was the intention but I think perhaps having Oreo Mike comments on this would be good too.
[2022-07-12T18:17:12.195Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I see it there's a couple of ways we do this right every vendor issues a long-term potential that says I certify that X vendor you know is informed by a certified that why vendors conformant and you leave them in once they are no longer conformant you revoke that bench that's one way the other way to do it is every time we run the static test we issue a new credential.
[2022-07-12T18:17:12.565Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi:  that is then.
[2022-07-12T18:17:20.485Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Right is there a different way that anybody can see through this stuff.
[2022-07-12T18:17:36.616Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Absolutely step by step 1.
[2022-07-12T18:17:47.301Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay would anyone like to take that on.
[2022-07-12T18:17:57.500Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	/s/step by step 1/ that is definitely step 1
[2022-07-12T18:18:01.942Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I have indicated that this is no longer blocked and that the first step is to define a schema for this work.
[2022-07-12T18:18:12.783Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Tonight let us move on.
[2022-07-12T18:18:18.843Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: To the collection of our last two requirements tickets finally.
[2022-07-12T18:18:23.539Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/252
[2022-07-12T18:18:51.313Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: First one is 25 to this ticket and all of those like it the intention here is to formally discuss and finalize whether or not each specific end point requires oauth2 and in the cases where they do require us to what specific Scopes are required to be present in the bearer token in order for the request or to be permitted to access that endpoint.
[2022-07-12T18:19:08.436Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Then I see you just updated this I agree the did that Json should be publicly accessible does anyone disagree with that assessment.
[2022-07-12T18:19:37.714Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think we should also just kind of add the reasoning that did that Jason is what's actually resolved with a did web which means that if anyone is trying to resolve a did web to a resource that is private it will mean that that did web is not valid or it will come with is not valid so by definition it should be public or not require a lot to Authentication.
[2022-07-12T18:19:41.417Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I agree with that 100% don't you like to add that comment.
[2022-07-12T18:20:09.712Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: In that case I believe this should be marked ready for PR and in this case the pr involves ensuring that the open API is an agreement with what we just decided as well as conformance testing to ensure that endpoints are conforming.
[2022-07-12T18:20:18.432Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Chances are ready for PR.
[2022-07-12T18:20:22.896Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Next ticket is 251.
[2022-07-12T18:20:31.873Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/251
[2022-07-12T18:20:31.941Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This is the same ticket and it is for the identifiers endpoint which is the did web resolution.
[2022-07-12T18:20:40.442Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This is currently marked as requiring a loss to with the resolved ID's scope.
[2022-07-12T18:20:45.893Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Does anyone have any comments on this.
[2022-07-12T18:20:50.439Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: In objections Angie.
[2022-07-12T18:20:54.582Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Different opinions from what is currently specified here.
[2022-07-12T18:21:01.865Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Mark this one so ready for PR.
[2022-07-12T18:21:19.310Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Can I think yeah I think the the reasoning behind this is because yeah not to provide public Universal Services so resolving it did takes up system resources and making that public on the Internet is.
[2022-07-12T18:21:21.902Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Not a very good idea.
[2022-07-12T18:21:40.916Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Maybe they're saying it is not a good idea I don't think I mean I get what you're saying you're saying that people may have used it but I think I mean there are public resolvers right it's just that is their business model and it is not our business model but I absolutely agree with your sentiment that like absolutely.
[2022-07-12T18:21:44.530Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay yeah we're within within the confines of the traceability API we would say it requires it.
[2022-07-12T18:22:03.178Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I mean I would say.
[2022-07-12T18:22:10.490Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I think Miss as insane as I think implementers are free to not require a lot they'll simply fail that portion of the test.
[2022-07-12T18:22:14.380Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Did conformance testing out the interoperability test right.
[2022-07-12T18:22:25.327Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And that goes for all of you.
[2022-07-12T18:22:30.466Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Actually put a so we put a so put a note in there required for required for conformance not for interoperability.
[2022-07-12T18:22:50.872Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Is that typing you adding the note found.
[2022-07-12T18:22:55.093Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah sorry that was that's me I didn't yes.
[2022-07-12T18:22:55.274Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yes thank you okay.
[2022-07-12T18:23:00.271Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Excellent the next one is 250.
[2022-07-12T18:23:03.276Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This is for credentials issue.
[2022-07-12T18:23:04.630Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/250
[2022-07-12T18:23:12.342Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And this one is currently also marked as mustard fire OS with the issue credential scope.
[2022-07-12T18:23:31.499Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: And I guess the reason behind this is this is implying that the server controls the keys used to issue that credential so by definition it requires Authentication.
[2022-07-12T18:23:33.366Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Is that correct.
[2022-07-12T18:23:35.778Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I agree with that.
[2022-07-12T18:23:52.812Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Working this is ready for PR and I appreciate you adding these notes.
[2022-07-12T18:24:05.905Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Yes I think this is just.
[2022-07-12T18:24:11.017Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Clean up with logic and the truth yeah.
[2022-07-12T18:24:19.320Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yes some of this is already specified in the open API this is just confirming that that implementation is in fact correct.
[2022-07-12T18:24:24.741Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay the next one is to 49.
[2022-07-12T18:24:25.574Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/249
[2022-07-12T18:24:36.797Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Mrs. for the credential status and points also marked as requiring oauth2 with the scope update credentials.
[2022-07-12T18:24:56.659Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Update credentials is for revocation so this is a similar reason to the previous one is it's implying that the server has control over the credential which implies authentication is that correct.
[2022-07-12T18:25:25.360Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/248
[2022-07-12T18:25:32.818Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay the next one is 248 and this is for credentials verify.
[2022-07-12T18:25:39.261Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This one is marked as must require oauth2 and the scope is verify credentials.
[2022-07-12T18:25:56.924Z]	<nis>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/openapi/#post-/credentials/verify
[2022-07-12T18:25:57.471Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think this isn't a similar issue similar place with the resolve dids is it is possible to be public but within the traceability API it is required is are we going with the similar reason for that.
[2022-07-12T18:25:58.206Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I think that's fair.
[2022-07-12T18:26:24.065Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I think if these have been implemented and if we all agree that the implementation is accurate I am plus 12 causing all of these.
[2022-07-12T18:26:30.961Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I would like to see conformance tests in place before we close these.
[2022-07-12T18:26:37.726Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I hear you yeah that's fair I could play forgot about that.
[2022-07-12T18:26:41.486Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Which I am I am happy to take on I've been working on those.
[2022-07-12T18:26:48.581Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: That gives us a concrete goal as well I'm on board.
[2022-07-12T18:26:53.431Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay the next one is 24/7.
[2022-07-12T18:27:01.132Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/247
[2022-07-12T18:27:03.158Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And that is for / credentials.
[2022-07-12T18:27:10.255Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: When it is marked as requiring lots to infuse the scope his read credentials.
[2022-07-12T18:27:16.187Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Who is this.
[2022-07-12T18:27:22.339Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Will be the one of the few locations where I would mark it as may require.
[2022-07-12T18:27:28.321Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Because you might want to have a credential which is available public on the internet.
[2022-07-12T18:27:33.895Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: On this what do you think.
[2022-07-12T18:28:02.240Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: So you can have a credential on a certain link which is only available to a party which has an oauth token but you can also allow the same potential with a specific ID to be public and accessible from The Wider internet.
[2022-07-12T18:28:21.402Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So in that case that's an interesting use case but it sounds like you would have some credentials that are in some that are not public so what would be here.
[2022-07-12T18:28:23.654Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Allocation method there.
[2022-07-12T18:28:27.718Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Would have been done and some of them were simply just be denied.
[2022-07-12T18:28:39.458Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: It would yeah it would be it would require a lot to for resources that are non public and require none for resources that are public.
[2022-07-12T18:28:47.300Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Would you like to add that justification and I'll go ahead and change this to May.
[2022-07-12T18:29:33.704Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/246
[2022-07-12T18:29:44.019Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay this one is marked ready the next is for / presentations which is the oauth version of The Exchange flow this is number 1X of a 24-6 it's smart as must require oauth with submit presentations as the scope.
[2022-07-12T18:30:01.761Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: There is a lot of commentary in here that I think applies generally to all of these tickets.
[2022-07-12T18:30:15.578Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Ted would you like to comment on any of these or do you feel like your questions have been addressed.
[2022-07-12T18:30:22.835Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I'm so distracted but I think it's going okay.
[2022-07-12T18:30:31.245Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay so Mike this one also is.
[2022-07-12T18:30:48.262Z]	<TallTed>	s/so distracted/semi distracted/
[2022-07-12T18:31:00.965Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And we are at time with that we totally forgot that we needed to reserve time to publish the minutes I'm happy to take care of that offline if everyone is okay with that or someone else would like to work through that given that I just did it today.
[2022-07-12T18:31:08.659Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I want to give it a shot today for today's minutes that's how it goes.
[2022-07-12T18:31:16.212Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I guess that's it for today, Thank you everyone
[2022-07-12T18:31:19.184Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: All right thank you everybody.
