[2023-03-14T17:33:37.268Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2023-03-14T17:33:37.269Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-03-14T17:33:37.269Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-03-14T17:33:40.078Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-03-14T17:34:01.974Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-03-14T17:34:12.718Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-03-14T17:35:54.621Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-03-14T17:36:02.503Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2023-03-14T17:36:04.917Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-03-14T17:36:55.947Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-03-14T17:36:55.947Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-03-14T17:38:00.291Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	scribe+
[2023-03-14T17:39:16.541Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: IPR Note, starting with trace vocab
[2023-03-14T17:39:50.339Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Topic: PRs
[2023-03-14T17:40:01.537Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/708
[2023-03-14T17:40:54.734Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	russe: 708 improves ag parcel delivery, where there were some improvements to shipping stop, mostly descriptions and @ids
[2023-03-14T17:42:22.649Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Orie: When checking links to new ids, you should check that the terms resolve, if it doesn't resolve it is an error.
[2023-03-14T17:42:35.020Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Russel: will update itemShipped.
[2023-03-14T17:43:02.173Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: can we merge offline when links are updated.
[2023-03-14T17:43:45.064Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: Nis isn't here, so reviewing description, it updates undefined terms for gs1 credential
[2023-03-14T17:43:54.080Z]	<TallTed>	link?
[2023-03-14T17:44:10.646Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	... adds context to credential object.
[2023-03-14T17:44:27.129Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/709
[2023-03-14T17:45:37.421Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Orie: Requested this from Nis, it reduces undefined terms to 0.
[2023-03-14T17:45:39.312Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/710
[2023-03-14T17:46:32.940Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: PR 710, updates CTPAT,  flattens the schema based on feedback.
[2023-03-14T17:46:50.921Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: two more identifiers we want to add that are missing, can we merge when they are added offline?
[2023-03-14T17:47:16.982Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: two identifiers are fair to update
[2023-03-14T17:47:38.260Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ted: requested some changes may have more.
[2023-03-14T17:48:05.120Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: lets hold off then until all CRs are in
[2023-03-14T17:48:55.980Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Russel: there appears to be two terms that are external that are not defined. What do i do if i cant find a term that seems appropriate that i cannot find on schema.org?
[2023-03-14T17:49:46.303Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: suggestion is leave it as an undefined term and create an issue to tackle it.
[2023-03-14T17:49:59.486Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Orie: Remove the @id and then create an issue to track the undefined term
[2023-03-14T17:51:16.198Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Russel: this issue affects many schema's wouldn't want to create a big catch all issue for all schemas? should i define using the term that is closest?
[2023-03-14T17:51:55.858Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: suggestion is we should leave it empty then come back to it.
[2023-03-14T17:52:40.546Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: Moving to trace interop PRs
[2023-03-14T17:53:04.974Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: PRs that are draft for a while is that a stale PR might need a lot more work.
[2023-03-14T17:53:28.467Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: Ping mike on the issue, to try and prompt some progress.
[2023-03-14T17:54:13.547Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/523
[2023-03-14T17:54:50.396Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: Moving to PR 523, from Chris. 

This PR removes optional credential ID and adds new positive test. 

credential/verify does not change and must have an id.
[2023-03-14T17:55:11.836Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: looks like it was signed off by everyone, merging 523
[2023-03-14T17:55:22.314Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/527
[2023-03-14T17:56:18.820Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: simple PR that removes trace context as a requirement on presentations
[2023-03-14T17:57:53.980Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Orie: I agree entirely from the conformance tests. 
We might want to keep it in for Oauth side, we should talk about what happens if you choose to leave out or keep in the trace context in the context of interop but we might require it for traceable workflows
[2023-03-14T17:58:11.232Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: 3 approvasl merging
[2023-03-14T17:59:21.739Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Russel: PR fixes 481, which we resolved to remove the verifications object entirely, so this PR removes that and adds additionalProperties true
[2023-03-14T17:59:54.474Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: Merging
[2023-03-14T17:59:59.320Z]	<TallTed>	is this https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/535 ?
[2023-03-14T18:00:11.162Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/535
[2023-03-14T18:00:37.013Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: concludes trace interop PRs, lets process vocab issues
[2023-03-14T18:01:27.708Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud for PR 708 on vocab what was resolution?
[2023-03-14T18:01:37.786Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Russel: will fix out of band and merge in after creating an issue.
[2023-03-14T18:02:00.363Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Russel: sort by least recently updated
[2023-03-14T18:02:12.217Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/596
[2023-03-14T18:02:20.428Z]	<TallTed>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-03-14T18:02:43.170Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: do we want to make ID marked as required in all our credentials?
[2023-03-14T18:02:49.234Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	... suggestion is yes
[2023-03-14T18:03:50.121Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: this should not break anyone's implementations because the id requirement does not break it.
[2023-03-14T18:04:49.754Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: marking it as ready-for-pr
[2023-03-14T18:04:54.778Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/178
[2023-03-14T18:05:42.392Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	ben: how can we make hts codes referenceable? do we just ping Nis for updates?
[2023-03-14T18:06:05.397Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: looks like resolution was an action item to Nis, suggest we ping him.
[2023-03-14T18:06:39.971Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/351
[2023-03-14T18:06:46.734Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: ran into HTS codes while doing personal movement of items.
[2023-03-14T18:07:38.542Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: Moving to #351, we should expect to see links to credentials, and they exist so closing issue.\
[2023-03-14T18:08:51.796Z]	<TallTed>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/204
[2023-03-14T18:09:22.873Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/313
[2023-03-14T18:09:25.472Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: my main issue was I needed guidance on knowning when to use which, Nis provided it and it is now available. please mark as ready for PR
[2023-03-14T18:09:45.250Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: issue 313, we should switch respec doc to v0.1
[2023-03-14T18:10:11.641Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: just assign it to me and ill do it offline
[2023-03-14T18:10:34.090Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/353
[2023-03-14T18:12:27.761Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Orie: This issue is a distraction from the effort going to VCJWT v2.0, we currently support VCJWT v1.1. JWS test suite is no longer standards track.
[2023-03-14T18:12:31.878Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/357
[2023-03-14T18:13:18.909Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: We have a bunch of images at the top of the document, suggestion is we move them inline so they are closer to the documents we actually define in the credential. this is still an update to our script that needs to take place. 
any other commetns?
[2023-03-14T18:13:55.922Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/366
[2023-03-14T18:15:09.046Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/399
[2023-03-14T18:15:14.438Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: assign the issue to me, will update with ready for PR label or outline if it is blocked.
[2023-03-14T18:17:09.662Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/527
[2023-03-14T18:17:10.583Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: issue 399 is generally useful, happy to close and revisit when we have a published first release
[2023-03-14T18:17:56.795Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: issue 529, updates Json preprocessor to support oneOf, only point we used this was person or organization, and we aligned to use organization, do we still have this requiremetn?
[2023-03-14T18:19:45.987Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ted: this is a handwave, there was a reason to use oneOf, tooling did not exist, but because we couldn't handle it.
[2023-03-14T18:20:18.633Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: We worked around the tooling with the data model
[2023-03-14T18:20:53.157Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ted: if there is a scenario where the correct usage is oneOf, and I don't think the situation has changed.
[2023-03-14T18:21:47.866Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ted: I think if we make a clear enough note at the end and we would not need to dedicate much call time.
[2023-03-14T18:22:45.844Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/607
[2023-03-14T18:22:46.404Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: we should just ask the question, is this still relevant, are there any requirements?
[2023-03-14T18:23:07.702Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: issue 607, clearly define revocation vs suspension?
[2023-03-14T18:25:18.257Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: would love answers to the questions Ben just noted on the issue.
[2023-03-14T18:25:58.349Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: will publish the minutes