Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Nis Jespersen  for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-01-16-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-01-16-traceability/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-01-16.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2024-01-16

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jan&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Nis Jespersen 
Present:
  Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Nis Jespersen , Guilherme, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Patrick St-Louis, Chris 
  Abernethy, A.J. Stein, Ted Thibodeau

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Welcome to the traceability call for January 
  16 2024 uh.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Sorry welcome to trivia call for January 16 
  2024.
Nis Jespersen  is scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/923
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Anything out of the regular agenda? No.
Patrick St-Louis:  Still having problems with this PR
Chris Abernethy:  I tested it also, reproduces the error
Chris Abernethy:  This term is defined already
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Remove the term, it's defined elsewhere
Nis Jespersen : Nis : +1
Nis Jespersen :  Let's collaborate on this
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/924
Nis Jespersen :  We expanded the schema
Nis Jespersen :  There might be more precise term definitions - 
  but fine to merge
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/925
Nis Jespersen :  Outdated way to define workflows. We now use the 
  data model for it. Also pretty bad definitions.
Patrick St-Louis:  Why no endpoint for getting presentations
Nis Jespersen :  That is between you and your service provider, 
  not interop
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Moving to trace interop
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/615
Nis Jespersen :  Chris, yes, we do want to purge these
Patrick St-Louis:  Is this not a VP?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It's unsigned VP
Nis Jespersen :  The signature is in the header
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  The signature is not part of the VP
Patrick St-Louis:  Issuer and holder often different
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It's quite common that issuer and holder are 
  the same
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Nis, other sections with these references
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/618
Subsequent PR
Nis Jespersen :  Sorry if I've been sloppy :)
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Opening 618
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/draft/#interoperability-testing
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Can anyone take update section 10?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  There are still references in section 10 and 
  OAS
Nis Jespersen :  Let's merge te PRs we got
Ted Thibodeau:  Consider merge conflicts
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We still need a third PR also
Ted Thibodeau:  Edit the comment so Github doesn't react
Nis Jespersen :  Good thinking, Ted!
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/618
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Approval pls
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/619
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  619: Ack section, copied from trace vocab
Acknowledgements
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/620
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Changes to abstract. Would love some more in 
  depth
Addresses 528, abstract nicification
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Interpreted as remove relationship to vc api
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  More reviews, pls
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/621
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Happy to give it another week and do it 
  properly
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Changes that terminology is only defined in 
  vocab
Mergingi in
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Newest agenda: going through vocab issues
Ted Thibodeau: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Nis Jespersen :  Why not least recently updated
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yup
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/379
Nis Jespersen :  We went through Steel Tech Demo, this didn't com 
  eup
Mahmoud recapping the issue discussion
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Suggest we don't label this v1
Nis Jespersen : Nis: +1
Chris Abernethy: +1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/852
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Ted, can you confirm?
Nis Jespersen :  My PR fixed this
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Closing as complete
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/357
Ted Thibodeau:  Was YML removed
Chris Abernethy:  Yes, Nis PR removed it
Nis Jespersen :  I don't think 357 isn't v1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think it is
Nis Jespersen :  Aiming to limit scope as much as possible
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/366
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Labeling 1.1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Paul was tagged to provide guidance. That 
  was next step
Nis Jespersen : Nis +1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/527
Nis Jespersen :  Would love to see this, but not necessary for v1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Pending close
Nis Jespersen :  Kill!!
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/607
Nis Jespersen :  Pending close from August...
Patrick St-Louis:  It was renamed for bitstrings
Hard time finding the definition. Not sure if SL2021 is still 
  prefered
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  This issue is specifically on which 
  documents need suspencion
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  And are these compatible?
Patrick St-Louis:  Notification and time of notification is 
  outside of the scope of SL
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  SL doesn't prevent it
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Important, won't hold v1 for it
Nis Jespersen : Nis: +1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/427
Nis Jespersen :  It's overly imcompassing
Ted Thibodeau:  It's unavoidably big. Started out sloppy, needs 
  fixing
Ted Thibodeau:  1.1
Nis Jespersen : Nis. +1
<a.j._stein> How many examples are we talking?
<a.j._stein> A couple dozen, hundreds?
<a.j._stein> Oh ok.
Nis Jespersen :  ~100
<a.j._stein> I mull over volunteering. (Does W3C have a laugh cry 
  emoji?)
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Update example while you are there
Nis Jespersen :  Test data is a chore
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Make a few example organizations, then go 
  with those
Patrick St-Louis:  Should we store those organizations?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We just need a few
Nis Jespersen :  It's not all organizations
Patrick St-Louis:  Reminds me of DID Actor project: alice, bob 
  etc
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Faker
Nis Jespersen :  We don't use faker any more
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Best effort, make it clear its fake
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/576
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Is this v1?
No, not tagging it
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/633
Nis Jespersen :  Pretty sure I fixed this
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Closing
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/719
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Nis, you okay to own this for v1?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/564
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/290
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/385
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Doesn't seem like a v1
Nis Jespersen : Nis: +1
Patrick St-Louis:  For oauth pres exchange, looked at gihub 
  action and test
When it hits /presentations, only test is response 200
And is actually responds with error
Chris Abernethy:  I don't believe those tests were completed
Patrick St-Louis:  So what should be returned?
Should I attach a workflow id?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  You received the workflow id
Patrick St-Louis:  So, the holder will call /presentations, 
  verifier responds with an ack
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes, just ack
Nis Jespersen :  Encourage you to raise improvements on the 
  collection
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  You are trying to use it, you struggle, make 
  sense to raise anything needs fixing
Patrick St-Louis:  Is there an implied action there should 
  happen?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  What you do with the credentials is your 
  business
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Over time. Thanks for joining this 
  productive meeting.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay to continue this way next week?
Patrick St-Louis:  Where can we find each other, Nis?
Nis Jespersen :  Linked in
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/882
A.J.: 882, how to discuss it?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Raise it in the beginning
Goodbye
<a.j._stein> That's a good question, not sure how much vocab 
  analogues are in OSCAL.
<a.j._stein> Thus my question.
