[2024-01-16T18:31:15.247Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2024-01-16T18:31:15.249Z]	<Raad_Al-Husban_(Mavennet_)>	present+
[2024-01-16T18:31:17.007Z]	<Guilherme>	present+
[2024-01-16T18:31:35.048Z]	<Raad_Al-Husban_(Mavennet)>	present+
[2024-01-16T18:32:03.900Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-01-16T18:32:12.759Z]	<Guilherme>	present+
[2024-01-16T18:32:22.299Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2024-01-16T18:33:03.710Z]	<nis>	present+
[2024-01-16T18:33:10.441Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2024-01-16T18:33:17.150Z]	<A.J._Stein>	present+
[2024-01-16T18:33:37.515Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-01-16T18:33:37.516Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-01-16T18:33:46.708Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Welcome to the traceability call for January 16 2024 uh.
[2024-01-16T18:33:51.633Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Sorry welcome to trivia call for January 16 2024.
[2024-01-16T18:33:54.308Z]	<Guilherme>	present+
[2024-01-16T18:34:15.864Z]	<nis>	scribe+
[2024-01-16T18:34:37.238Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2024-01-16T18:34:46.902Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/923
[2024-01-16T18:34:47.472Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: anything out of the regular agenda? No.
[2024-01-16T18:35:54.011Z]	<nis>	Patrick: still having problems with this PR
[2024-01-16T18:36:13.333Z]	<nis>	Chris: I tested it also, reproduces the error
[2024-01-16T18:36:36.332Z]	<nis>	Chris: this term is defined already
[2024-01-16T18:37:32.007Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: remove the term, it's defined elsewhere
[2024-01-16T18:37:35.425Z]	<nis>	Nis : +1
[2024-01-16T18:39:10.261Z]	<nis>	Nis: let's collaborate on this
[2024-01-16T18:39:11.727Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/924
[2024-01-16T18:39:28.329Z]	<nis>	Raad: we expanded the schema
[2024-01-16T18:41:34.005Z]	<nis>	Nis: there might be more precise term definitions - but fine to merge
[2024-01-16T18:41:48.998Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/925
[2024-01-16T18:43:06.804Z]	<nis>	Nis: outdated way to define workflows. We now use the data model for it. Also pretty bad definitions.
[2024-01-16T18:43:57.941Z]	<nis>	Patrick: why no endpoint for getting presentations
[2024-01-16T18:44:09.015Z]	<nis>	Nis: that is between you and your service provider, not interop
[2024-01-16T18:44:09.866Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2024-01-16T18:44:19.021Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: moving to trace interop
[2024-01-16T18:44:21.057Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/615
[2024-01-16T18:45:47.583Z]	<nis>	Nis: Chris, yes, we do want to purge these
[2024-01-16T18:46:00.063Z]	<nis>	Patrick: is this not a VP?
[2024-01-16T18:46:46.899Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: it's unsigned VP
[2024-01-16T18:46:56.325Z]	<nis>	Nis: the signature is in the header
[2024-01-16T18:47:42.103Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: the signature is not part of the VP
[2024-01-16T18:48:19.507Z]	<nis>	Patrick: issuer and holder often different
[2024-01-16T18:48:40.671Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: it's quite common that issuer and holder are the same
[2024-01-16T18:48:58.353Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Nis, other sections with these references
[2024-01-16T18:49:04.083Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/618
[2024-01-16T18:49:07.412Z]	<nis>	Subsequent PR
[2024-01-16T18:49:23.237Z]	<nis>	Nis: sorry if I've been sloppy :)
[2024-01-16T18:49:34.055Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: opening 618
[2024-01-16T18:50:33.407Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/draft/#interoperability-testing
[2024-01-16T18:50:58.974Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: can anyone take update section 10?
[2024-01-16T18:51:46.237Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: there are still references in section 10 and OAS
[2024-01-16T18:52:06.696Z]	<nis>	Nis: let's merge te PRs we got
[2024-01-16T18:52:48.840Z]	<nis>	Ted: consider merge conflicts
[2024-01-16T18:52:56.432Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we still need a third PR also
[2024-01-16T18:53:14.837Z]	<nis>	Ted: edit the comment so Github doesn't react
[2024-01-16T18:53:23.301Z]	<nis>	Nis: good thinking, Ted!
[2024-01-16T18:53:33.386Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/618
[2024-01-16T18:53:53.148Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: approval pls
[2024-01-16T18:54:07.200Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/619
[2024-01-16T18:54:20.227Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: 619: ack section, copied from trace vocab
[2024-01-16T18:54:50.614Z]	<nis>	Acknowledgements
[2024-01-16T18:54:51.209Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/620
[2024-01-16T18:55:08.823Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: changes to abstract. Would love some more in depth
[2024-01-16T18:55:25.505Z]	<nis>	Addresses 528, abstract nicification
[2024-01-16T18:55:48.613Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: interpreted as remove relationship to vc api
[2024-01-16T18:55:55.704Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: more reviews, pls
[2024-01-16T18:56:10.176Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/621
[2024-01-16T18:56:11.860Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: happy to give it another week and do it properly
[2024-01-16T18:56:34.059Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: changes that terminology is only defined in vocab
[2024-01-16T18:57:04.388Z]	<nis>	Mergingi in
[2024-01-16T18:57:31.266Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues
[2024-01-16T18:57:36.851Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: newest agenda: going through vocab issues
[2024-01-16T18:57:46.592Z]	<TallTed>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2024-01-16T18:57:59.607Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2024-01-16T18:58:07.888Z]	<nis>	Nis: why not least recently updated
[2024-01-16T18:58:10.433Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yup
[2024-01-16T18:59:53.581Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/379
[2024-01-16T19:00:00.385Z]	<nis>	Nis: we went through Steel Tech Demo, this didn't com eup
[2024-01-16T19:00:38.096Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud recapping the issue discussion
[2024-01-16T19:00:56.410Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: suggest we don't label this v1
[2024-01-16T19:01:01.600Z]	<nis>	Nis: +1
[2024-01-16T19:01:04.468Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	+1
[2024-01-16T19:01:20.960Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/852
[2024-01-16T19:02:27.600Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Ted, can you confirm?
[2024-01-16T19:02:31.821Z]	<nis>	Nis: my PR fixed this
[2024-01-16T19:02:39.563Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: closing as complete
[2024-01-16T19:03:06.792Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/357
[2024-01-16T19:03:08.555Z]	<nis>	Ted: was YML removed
[2024-01-16T19:03:19.090Z]	<nis>	Chris: yes, Nis PR removed it
[2024-01-16T19:04:25.514Z]	<nis>	Nis: I don't think 357 isn't v1
[2024-01-16T19:04:33.948Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I think it is
[2024-01-16T19:04:47.954Z]	<nis>	Nis: aiming to limit scope as much as possible
[2024-01-16T19:04:51.468Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/366
[2024-01-16T19:04:56.128Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: labeling 1.1
[2024-01-16T19:06:36.284Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Paul was tagged to provide guidance. That was next step
[2024-01-16T19:06:45.119Z]	<nis>	Nis +1
[2024-01-16T19:07:18.013Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/527
[2024-01-16T19:07:18.432Z]	<nis>	Nis: would love to see this, but not necessary for v1
[2024-01-16T19:07:46.423Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: pending close
[2024-01-16T19:07:51.694Z]	<nis>	Nis: Kill!!
[2024-01-16T19:08:16.135Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/607
[2024-01-16T19:08:27.028Z]	<nis>	Nis: Pending close from August...
[2024-01-16T19:09:20.034Z]	<nis>	Patrick: it was renamed for bitstrings
[2024-01-16T19:09:38.586Z]	<nis>	Hard time finding the definition. Not sure if SL2021 is still prefered
[2024-01-16T19:10:04.704Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: this issue is specifically on which documents need suspencion
[2024-01-16T19:10:26.791Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: And are these compatible?
[2024-01-16T19:10:48.342Z]	<nis>	Patrick: notification and time of notification is outside of the scope of SL
[2024-01-16T19:11:13.769Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: SL doesn't prevent it
[2024-01-16T19:11:43.109Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: important, won't hold v1 for it
[2024-01-16T19:11:45.132Z]	<nis>	Nis: +1
[2024-01-16T19:11:57.514Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/427
[2024-01-16T19:13:28.753Z]	<nis>	Nis: it's overly imcompassing
[2024-01-16T19:14:04.314Z]	<nis>	Ted: it's unavoidably big. Started out sloppy, needs fixing
[2024-01-16T19:14:07.658Z]	<nis>	Ted: 1.1
[2024-01-16T19:14:10.218Z]	<nis>	Nis. +1
[2024-01-16T19:14:11.833Z]	<A.J._Stein>	How many examples are we talking?
[2024-01-16T19:14:22.604Z]	<A.J._Stein>	A couple dozen, hundreds?
[2024-01-16T19:14:26.037Z]	<A.J._Stein>	Oh ok.
[2024-01-16T19:14:34.684Z]	<nis>	Nis: ~100
[2024-01-16T19:14:45.362Z]	<A.J._Stein>	I mull over volunteering. (Does W3C have a laugh cry emoji?)
[2024-01-16T19:14:51.730Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: update example while you are there
[2024-01-16T19:15:30.128Z]	<Ted_Thibodeau_(iPhone)>	present+
[2024-01-16T19:15:43.201Z]	<nis>	Nis: test data is a chore
[2024-01-16T19:16:00.385Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: make a few example organizations, then go with those
[2024-01-16T19:16:13.793Z]	<nis>	Patrick: should we store those organizations?
[2024-01-16T19:16:21.766Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we just need a few
[2024-01-16T19:17:02.183Z]	<nis>	Nis: it's not all organizations
[2024-01-16T19:17:26.019Z]	<nis>	Patrick: reminds me of DID Actor project: alice, bob etc
[2024-01-16T19:17:38.527Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: faker
[2024-01-16T19:17:45.839Z]	<nis>	Nis: we don't use faker any more
[2024-01-16T19:17:58.101Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: best effort, make it clear its fake
[2024-01-16T19:18:03.004Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/576
[2024-01-16T19:21:12.047Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: is this v1?
[2024-01-16T19:21:18.094Z]	<nis>	No, not tagging it
[2024-01-16T19:21:19.721Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/633
[2024-01-16T19:21:55.128Z]	<nis>	Nis: pretty sure I fixed this
[2024-01-16T19:21:59.275Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: closing
[2024-01-16T19:22:06.933Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/719
[2024-01-16T19:23:25.054Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Nis, you okay to own this for v1?
[2024-01-16T19:23:26.239Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/564
[2024-01-16T19:24:56.928Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/290
[2024-01-16T19:26:45.859Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/385
[2024-01-16T19:29:33.568Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: doesn't seem like a v1
[2024-01-16T19:29:35.477Z]	<nis>	Nis: +1
[2024-01-16T19:29:48.412Z]	<nis>	Patrick: for oauth pres exchange, looked at gihub action and test
[2024-01-16T19:30:05.927Z]	<nis>	When it hits /presentations, only test is response 200
[2024-01-16T19:30:28.687Z]	<nis>	And is actually responds with error
[2024-01-16T19:30:39.583Z]	<nis>	Chris: I don't believe those tests were completed
[2024-01-16T19:30:46.544Z]	<nis>	Patrick: so what should be returned?
[2024-01-16T19:30:59.286Z]	<nis>	Should I attach a workflow id?
[2024-01-16T19:31:07.473Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: you received the workflow id
[2024-01-16T19:31:44.310Z]	<nis>	Patrick: so, the holder will call /presentations, verifier responds with an ack
[2024-01-16T19:31:59.107Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yes, just ack
[2024-01-16T19:32:28.715Z]	<nis>	Nis: encourage you to raise improvements on the collection
[2024-01-16T19:33:01.854Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: you are trying to use it, you struggle, make sense to raise anything needs fixing
[2024-01-16T19:33:18.175Z]	<nis>	Patrick: is there an implied action there should happen?
[2024-01-16T19:33:34.546Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: what you do with the credentials is your business
[2024-01-16T19:33:57.815Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: over time. Thanks for joining this productive meeting.
[2024-01-16T19:34:13.390Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: okay to continue this way next week?
[2024-01-16T19:34:56.026Z]	<nis>	Patrick: where can we find each other, Nis?
[2024-01-16T19:35:01.375Z]	<nis>	Nis: linked in
[2024-01-16T19:35:44.317Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/882
[2024-01-16T19:35:56.311Z]	<nis>	A.J.: 882, how to discuss it?
[2024-01-16T19:36:07.141Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: raise it in the beginning
[2024-01-16T19:36:11.933Z]	<nis>	Goodbye
[2024-01-16T19:36:14.979Z]	<A.J._Stein>	That's a good question, not sure how much vocab analogues are in OSCAL.
[2024-01-16T19:36:20.027Z]	<A.J._Stein>	Thus my question.
