[2021-10-26T20:00:55.204Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:00:55.205Z]	<Justin_Richer>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:00:55.580Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:01:21.922Z]	<Vasilis_K>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:01:28.216Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:02:05.336Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:02:05.392Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:02:20.010Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:02:48.756Z]	<Mike_Varley>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:04:01.659Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Oct/0084.html
[2021-10-26T20:04:03.559Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	chair: manu
[2021-10-26T20:04:09.221Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:04:35.704Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:04:39.532Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:04:41.792Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:04:48.561Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:05:21.057Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:05:53.572Z]	<Mike_Varley>	scribe+
[2021-10-26T20:06:40.335Z]	<Mike_Varley>	manu: agenda review, introductions, community updates, call focus on work Joe and Eric have been doing on VC API ecosystem
[2021-10-26T20:06:56.506Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... diagrams, naming, dataflows,
[2021-10-26T20:07:18.095Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... a PR is in for this content, this is background to future discussions.
[2021-10-26T20:07:37.119Z]	<manu>	Topic: Introductions
[2021-10-26T20:14:04.603Z]	<Vasilis_K>	Hello, my name is Vasileis, I'm currently an MSC student at AUEB studying computer science. I'm interested in the domain of VC and SSI. Today I wanted to attend the meeting in order to find out more. Nice to meet you all.
[2021-10-26T20:08:15.448Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:09:13.561Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:09:23.205Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:09:24.196Z]	<manu>	Topic: Relevant Community Updates
[2021-10-26T20:10:07.933Z]	<Adrian>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:10:14.728Z]	<Mike_Varley>	manu: the Verifiable Creentials TPAC meetings are this week... if you are a w3c member and missed it there was charter discussion
[2021-10-26T20:10:17.651Z]	<mprorock>	CCG t pac overlapped unfortunately along with WebML
[2021-10-26T20:10:25.479Z]	<brent>	https://w3c.github.io/vc-wg-charter/
[2021-10-26T20:10:28.661Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Can give brief update-VC-EDU Task Force Charter Updated: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAdC1mBSP-p6zxXGRQNfSQNPe5MY6UZ6Tf676oY7BOk/edit#heading=h.iem8mwq6o4rn
[2021-10-26T20:10:33.683Z]	<manu>	VCWG charter -- https://w3c.github.io/vc-wg-charter/
[2021-10-26T20:10:47.561Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-10-26T20:10:53.891Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-10-26T20:10:58.018Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... please read/review/comment for today or tomorrow for review so it can be locked down.
[2021-10-26T20:11:09.987Z]	<mprorock>	q-
[2021-10-26T20:11:28.453Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... no VC API in the charter, but it could be added as a "note" if significant progress is made.
[2021-10-26T20:12:28.151Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... lots of work to be done and to be seen how fast consensus can be gained on the VC API spec to see if it can be made a note.
[2021-10-26T20:12:29.545Z]	<Mike_Varley>	...
[2021-10-26T20:12:54.321Z]	<manu>	ack Kerri
[2021-10-26T20:12:58.773Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... conversation tomorrow will be on VC 1.1 and VC 2.0 spec before maintenance charter expires.
[2021-10-26T20:13:09.848Z]	<mprorock>	yep - manu answered my questions
[2021-10-26T20:13:18.411Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Kerri_Lemoie: Verifiable education Tasklist charter added in chat
[2021-10-26T20:13:43.082Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... include training and achievement creds
[2021-10-26T20:14:20.057Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... question to the Edu group was how to include all the data standards for various types, consolidated now to focus on VC format.
[2021-10-26T20:14:21.265Z]	<Mike_Varley>	...
[2021-10-26T20:14:40.484Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... meeting Monday to continue EDU discussion
[2021-10-26T20:15:04.151Z]	<mprorock>	+1 a few creds would be awesome
[2021-10-26T20:15:04.679Z]	<Adrian>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:15:18.544Z]	<Mike_Varley>	manu: how can this group help? we have VC API - can EDU group provide a credential to demonstrate interop over? something more important?
[2021-10-26T20:15:54.297Z]	<Adrian>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:15:55.064Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Kerri_Lemoie: discussions around how API and unversal wallet can work... still discussing how this work can help.
[2021-10-26T20:16:21.768Z]	<Mike_Varley>	dmitryZ: VC API and recharted VC group are of interest to EDU group but still early to engage.
[2021-10-26T20:16:27.059Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:17:08.671Z]	<Mike_Varley>	manu: over to Joe for next section; diagram overview and flow diagram... other format?
[2021-10-26T20:17:24.244Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	topic: VC API Components
[2021-10-26T20:18:10.262Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: 3 things to cover: introduce High Level Architecture, go over supply chain flow which is a concrete use case, then go over learnings.
[2021-10-26T20:18:20.276Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	https://legreq.github.io/vc-api/
[2021-10-26T20:18:26.267Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: can also cover the CHAPI version if there is time.
[2021-10-26T20:18:48.147Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: (attaching materials)
[2021-10-26T20:19:21.787Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: PR replaces architecture overview entirely...
[2021-10-26T20:19:26.377Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:19:53.699Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... defines issuer/verifier/holder and then described components, to clarify what is an "App" and what is a "service"
[2021-10-26T20:20:25.598Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... there are components/services that execute business rules on behalf of the actor
[2021-10-26T20:20:59.795Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... For example there is an Issuer web application that drives the VC API Issuer service.
[2021-10-26T20:21:38.953Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... storage services are included, question on this needs to be standardized (like an EDV) or just leave it as "internal DB".
[2021-10-26T20:22:54.003Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... There are Holder applications backed by a service, but the User Agent (browser) may still reach out to an EDV without contacting their service layer (needs to be accounted for)
[2021-10-26T20:23:32.505Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... some services may communicate directly with other services without an app layer.
[2021-10-26T20:24:03.915Z]	<mprorock>	likely out of scope
[2021-10-26T20:24:04.695Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... There needs to be an 'Admin' interface for services, not considered here currently.
[2021-10-26T20:24:08.166Z]	<mprorock>	at least for now
[2021-10-26T20:24:21.298Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... (does admin interfacee need standardization? we have enough to do)
[2021-10-26T20:24:50.291Z]	<dmitriz>	+1 about Admin interface. (in terms of, I really don't think this group needs to concern with it)
[2021-10-26T20:24:51.131Z]	<manu>	ack david
[2021-10-26T20:25:02.738Z]	<manu>	q+ chadwick
[2021-10-26T20:25:41.865Z]	<David_Chadwick>	I cannot see the diagrams in my browsers
[2021-10-26T20:26:06.825Z]	<mprorock>	i had to go to the PR to go see the diagrams
[2021-10-26T20:26:07.233Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:26:17.192Z]	<mprorock>	not visible in link for me
[2021-10-26T20:26:22.701Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: I think what most folks call wallets today is a combination of the "app" and "servoce"
[2021-10-26T20:26:29.570Z]	<by_caballero>	files changes --> ... menu --> view file
[2021-10-26T20:26:57.091Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	https://legreq.github.io/vc-api/
[2021-10-26T20:27:00.147Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	Does that work for you?
[2021-10-26T20:27:27.858Z]	<by_caballero>	q-
[2021-10-26T20:27:28.861Z]	<Mike_Varley>	David_Chadwick: (diagrams are not viewable, is there a format problem?)
[2021-10-26T20:27:39.780Z]	<Justin_Richer>	same no embedded images here either
[2021-10-26T20:27:55.385Z]	<Mike_Varley>	mprorock: yes, there is an issue with viewing the image...
[2021-10-26T20:28:04.547Z]	<by_caballero>	github propagation glitches
[2021-10-26T20:28:16.313Z]	<Justin_Richer>	I'm getting a 404 on the image itself: https://legreq.github.io/vc-api/diagrams/vc-http-api-architecture.svg
[2021-10-26T20:28:20.110Z]	<mprorock>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pull/237/files#diff-f1e062c2314e98b0df6a8cf0918a955b5fcbb22ae0e86b2918ddd9e1a8d3f15e
[2021-10-26T20:28:44.837Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-10-26T20:28:48.106Z]	<manu>	ack chadwick
[2021-10-26T20:28:54.273Z]	<mprorock>	and the BIG diagram https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/blob/bedac5601dfccdc89aea05ff06a688478499c6c8/diagrams/roles.png
[2021-10-26T20:29:03.920Z]	<Mike_Varley>	adrian: when it comes to authorization, is this a function of the App or the Service?
[2021-10-26T20:29:25.800Z]	<Justin_Richer>	AS would be a function of whatever service is being protected
[2021-10-26T20:29:45.903Z]	<mprorock>	anywhere there is a connection / api call there should be auth of some kind
[2021-10-26T20:29:48.095Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: All the arrows in the digram need some conversation on how the connections are secured...
[2021-10-26T20:30:00.596Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-10-26T20:30:03.519Z]	<manu>	ack david
[2021-10-26T20:30:36.873Z]	<mprorock>	+1 on storing VPs
[2021-10-26T20:30:47.695Z]	<Mike_Varley>	David_chadwick: in our implementation the VP can also be stored (diagram only shows VCs being stored) - for verifiers audit trail.
[2021-10-26T20:31:16.053Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: switching to sequence diagram
[2021-10-26T20:32:10.663Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... This flow begins at the "Holder App"; the Holder actor is no longer involved, the have passed control to the App.
[2021-10-26T20:32:15.301Z]	<mprorock>	more event triggered, but sure
[2021-10-26T20:32:45.897Z]	<manu>	q+ to note what was confusing the first time about this
[2021-10-26T20:33:22.062Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... the service is like a cron-job that can call the holder app for its business process
[2021-10-26T20:33:26.988Z]	<mprorock>	one or more VCs btw
[2021-10-26T20:33:35.115Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1
[2021-10-26T20:33:58.575Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... holder app executes business logic and calls the "holder service" to build the VP
[2021-10-26T20:34:29.601Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... Holder app calls back to Verifier App with the VP, and verifier App calls the Verifier Service for verification.
[2021-10-26T20:34:55.333Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... Verifier App then stores VP (as required) and then Holder App is informed that VP was accepted.
[2021-10-26T20:35:15.055Z]	<mprorock>	q+ to speak to a few details from our impl
[2021-10-26T20:35:22.803Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-10-26T20:35:29.679Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... this is a supply-chain view on the flows, where the holder/actor is not really involved like a CHAPI flow
[2021-10-26T20:35:49.005Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	Please try again https://legreq.github.io/vc-api/
[2021-10-26T20:36:12.431Z]	<Mike_Varley>	manu: steps 3,4,5,6: makes it seem there are 2 ways to execute this flow (push and pull) - now it seems like just a pull flow
[2021-10-26T20:36:32.679Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... "notify data ready" may be confusing terminology
[2021-10-26T20:36:42.525Z]	<mprorock>	+1 manu - you got it
[2021-10-26T20:36:49.987Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2021-10-26T20:36:58.949Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... when really its a "domain/challenge" etc challenge for the desired Presentation
[2021-10-26T20:37:12.876Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... if that is accurate then this is aligned with CHAPI flow.
[2021-10-26T20:37:25.076Z]	<mprorock>	yes
[2021-10-26T20:38:10.003Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: in supply chain flow, the Holder defines that data that is "ready" - as opposed to personal flow, the Holder wants to use a service, and the Verifier asks for credentials it wants.
[2021-10-26T20:38:21.952Z]	<manu>	q+ adrian
[2021-10-26T20:38:26.622Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q-
[2021-10-26T20:38:29.003Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... (personal == CHAPI)
[2021-10-26T20:38:29.829Z]	<manu>	ack mpro
[2021-10-26T20:39:34.041Z]	<Mike_Varley>	mprorock: some notes on current impl - whenever a system is called there are various levels of Authorization being executed at various points.
[2021-10-26T20:40:16.781Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... "I have data ready" is an initiation flow that defines the data / credential that is ready for submission that gets run through a business app flow/Queue.
[2021-10-26T20:40:54.563Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... eg a shipping manifest, or multiple manifests that are used in the business process.
[2021-10-26T20:41:37.855Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... services/apps have very extensive audit trails; the audit trail API is out of scope from the spec but still very important for the use case.
[2021-10-26T20:41:43.809Z]	<by_caballero>	no idea
[2021-10-26T20:41:51.136Z]	<manu>	ack david
[2021-10-26T20:41:51.136Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-10-26T20:42:35.877Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1 that #6 should still specify the data type request
[2021-10-26T20:42:44.296Z]	<Mike_Varley>	David_chadwick: need some clarifiaction on the difference between supply chain "here is a presentation that is ready" vs. other flow where verifier is asking for specifics.
[2021-10-26T20:43:28.203Z]	<mprorock>	btw - this is kindof the simple flow that lets us operate to start, there is the scaling big side of this that may go well beyond this (e.g. pub/sub, async fire and forget, streaming data between parties, etc)
[2021-10-26T20:43:36.926Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-10-26T20:43:48.398Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: is the question "sometimes you don't know the type of credential the verifier will accept" and (6) may be the right place for that negotiation...
[2021-10-26T20:43:49.249Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-10-26T20:43:55.329Z]	<by_caballero>	presentation exchange?
[2021-10-26T20:44:45.442Z]	<Mike_Varley>	mprorock: mostly there are pre-configured rules in place for various processes, so "negotiation" is likely already defined as a configured workflow that both sides understand.
[2021-10-26T20:45:22.738Z]	<Mike_Varley>	mprorock: from a scaling perspective, sometimes there are 20,000 presentations "ready", which is where pre-configuratino is important.
[2021-10-26T20:46:37.585Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... with large scale / high volume system, sometimes even REST/HTTP gets tested and becomes more of a 'stream' of data
[2021-10-26T20:46:57.261Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-10-26T20:47:19.852Z]	<Mike_Varley>	David_Chadwick: maybe this is a published meta-data type solution
[2021-10-26T20:47:22.889Z]	<manu>	ack adrian
[2021-10-26T20:47:25.853Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-10-26T20:47:47.312Z]	<Mike_Varley>	adrian: I see calls to "an open endpoint" kicking off the flow... can we identify that call?
[2021-10-26T20:48:05.578Z]	<mprorock>	none of our endpoints are open
[2021-10-26T20:48:35.308Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... by open it means unprotected and subject to spam/dos attacks. Like in OAuth, the initial OAuth request is an "open endppint"
[2021-10-26T20:48:45.194Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	We (Digital Bazaar) does have open endpoints, fwiw
[2021-10-26T20:49:04.374Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	like, CHAPI starts off w/ an open endpoint.. #3 is open.
[2021-10-26T20:49:06.517Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-10-26T20:49:08.274Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: none of these endpoints are meant to be open - but there needs to be a conversation on each of these points on how they are secured.
[2021-10-26T20:49:10.230Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-10-26T20:49:12.273Z]	<manu>	ack mpro
[2021-10-26T20:49:40.487Z]	<manu>	ack mpro
[2021-10-26T20:50:00.960Z]	<Mike_Varley>	mprorock: impl. has no open endpoints, clients are connected after contracts are signed.
[2021-10-26T20:50:14.659Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-10-26T20:50:16.496Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Kerri_Lemoie: can a Verifier return a VC?
[2021-10-26T20:50:16.728Z]	<manu>	ack kerri
[2021-10-26T20:50:17.622Z]	<mprorock>	19 is an ACK and yes, could be a return of more data
[2021-10-26T20:50:34.531Z]	<mprorock>	such as errors, warnings, or trigger another flow
[2021-10-26T20:50:35.129Z]	<by_caballero>	^  (In your system?)
[2021-10-26T20:50:43.573Z]	<mprorock>	+1 juan
[2021-10-26T20:50:44.127Z]	<by_caballero>	(or in general?)
[2021-10-26T20:50:45.175Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: yes, the Verifier could provide a VC / consent receipt as part of (19).
[2021-10-26T20:50:58.896Z]	<TallTed>	q+ to ask about (in)significance of solid vs dashed lines, and suggest addition of REQ/ACK/similar labels
[2021-10-26T20:51:00.368Z]	<by_caballero>	(sweet just being explicit for the notes)
[2021-10-26T20:51:05.145Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-10-26T20:51:20.011Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Kerri_Lemoie: in terms of EDU use case, these are like "endorsement flows" where a Verified 'endorses' a credenital.
[2021-10-26T20:51:45.546Z]	<mprorock>	that's what cloudflare is fore
[2021-10-26T20:51:54.268Z]	<mprorock>	*for
[2021-10-26T20:52:17.080Z]	<Mike_Varley>	manu: for some use cases, there will be open endpoints (like a process to kick off authorization). In some cases there needs to be considerations for some open endpoints.
[2021-10-26T20:53:09.824Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... to Kerri's point; it could be a simple ACK (200 OK) or it could be a use case that is a continuation: like a "you have passed step one, let's continue to step 2".
[2021-10-26T20:53:46.834Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... for example, present driver's license, then present other qualification form and so on.
[2021-10-26T20:54:12.369Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to talk about languaging on these messages
[2021-10-26T20:54:14.043Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... in (19) there could be a loop step (3) for some new credential types.
[2021-10-26T20:54:16.317Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	Also could loop into the issuance flow (not shown here)
[2021-10-26T20:54:22.720Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	+1 Manu - that's great
[2021-10-26T20:54:23.684Z]	<mprorock>	+1 manu - there is definite use for that
[2021-10-26T20:54:28.558Z]	<manu>	ack TallTed
[2021-10-26T20:55:05.938Z]	<Mike_Varley>	TallTed: (20) should be closer to (13) - because something was sent (ACK even before it is processed)
[2021-10-26T20:55:21.315Z]	<manu>	q+ to close out the call
[2021-10-26T20:55:31.228Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... question about meaning of solid/dashed lines, and what is a response and what is a call out.
[2021-10-26T20:55:42.879Z]	<mprorock>	Ted - we are logging all inbound / outbound / etc but i am not sure that is in scope outside of non-normative best practices for security and audit controls
[2021-10-26T20:56:23.533Z]	<Phil_Long/T3/GU/Csky...>	present+
[2021-10-26T20:56:40.376Z]	<manu>	ack joe
[2021-10-26T20:56:46.021Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: this flow has "normal English" to convey intent/logic/semantics, but then in later versions we can insert actual API endpoints and params.
[2021-10-26T20:56:55.446Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-10-26T20:57:36.377Z]	<Mike_Varley>	manu: hopefully this was a great help to the group (this vas very valuable as concrete material)
[2021-10-26T20:57:56.071Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... there is a PR for this content, please review. Maybe next call cover CHAPI flow?
[2021-10-26T20:58:49.832Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Joe: yes, let's look at CHAPI flow, but this diagram also has some controversial statements that need to be discussed; was something misunderstood or incorrect?
[2021-10-26T20:59:30.041Z]	<mprorock>	as long as we don't drop years in names, cool
[2021-10-26T20:59:34.789Z]	<Mike_Varley>	... there are also places where we are "not" specifying standardization; like key management. Sso how to navigate thosee issues needs discussion
[2021-10-26T20:59:38.577Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	This is great. Thank you!
