Ben - Transmute says:scribe+ 
19:35
Chris Abernethy
Chris Abernethy says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
 
19:35
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: starting with interop pull requests 
19:35
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/595
 
19:36
Chris Abernethy
Chris Abernethy says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/595
 
19:36
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: This is a draft and I'm not in a rush to get it merged. We want to show interop with a credential that doesn't have our context, but I want GS1 to approve the PR. 
19:36
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/596
 
19:37
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Moving onto 596, this is updating docs with respec to scope changes 
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: This was originally 580 that got closed, this is something we need so our documentation is up to speed where we allow people to specific scope names in testing suites. This is a work around for azure that uses wonky names with requirements. 
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: This one and the other three I did today, so I don't think anyone has reviewed it yet. So we can give people time to review it. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Okay, we can wait on reviewers. 
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: I think Ted, Orie and Mahmoud should have time to review these. 
19:40
Orie
Orie says:sry I am late 
19:40
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Ted: I can't review it right now 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: I'll leave a comment to ping Orie and Mahmoud 
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: If Orie approves it, it should be fine. I made the changes that Ted requested 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Okay, if there are no objections we can merge 
19:41
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/597
 
19:41
Arun
Arun says:Hello all, this is Arun. Coran and I tried speaking up in one of the earlier meetings. Please let us know when it is time for community chat, we have a few questions. 
19:42
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: I think this was Mahmoud's request to add a conformance test for an issuer to return a 400 if there were duplicate keys. This is going to require more work on the issuer end. I expect we'll get some failures initially. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: That's not a reason to delay merging right? But because this has ramifications, we can wait for reviews. 
19:43
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/598
 
19:44
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: This was a request that Orie made to add documentation to respec to add code generators from the spec. And I included examples on how it can be used. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: I think we can drum up enough approvals on this call. Any objections to merging? Merging. 
19:45
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/599
 
19:45
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: This was in response to one that was pending close with how we reference credentials. I requested to keep it open to reference proposal number 4. If you provide no id, you will be provided one, otherwise if you provide one it cannot be overwritten by the issuer. 
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: For JSON versus JWT we should find a way to avoid doing what this schema is doing. This is kind of from before vc-data model 2. And we've advanced the data model on this substancially. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Should we create an issue to track that? 
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: I have a project that does this, but it's half-built. It's related to a bunch of issues on how we get to v2 as fast as possible. I don't think we need a new issue for it. 
19:49
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/784
 
19:49
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: We have two pull requests, the first one is from me. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: This is reviving an old PR that creates an extended product. It got pushback for extended product by moving that into agriculture product. Orie and Ted had suggestions that have been addressed. 
19:50
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/883
 
19:51
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: This is a first pass on EU legislation for Digital Product Passport. In my opinion this does belong here and I want to get this started as the requirements evolve. This is a starting point. 
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: I have a big encoded image, is that an anti-pattern 
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: It does create problems, we inflate image data and then we bundle it into one file and it makes that file super painful. There's also an issue when you have an image link that anytime someone looks at that shows someone is looking at that credential. 
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: We should include small dat-uri images and provide a suggestion to never include hot-link images. 
19:54
Coran
Coran says:Hi. Arun and I have a question on the Interoperability spec workflow as it pertains to data exchange between partners. Please let us know if this is the right call and when itâ€™s appropriate to ask that question. 
19:55
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Orie you said you making a change request? 
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: Yes, make the data-uri as small as possible and add warning text around hot links 
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: Can I merge this out of band once that has been changed? 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Any objections to nis merging out of band? 
19:55
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
 
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/482
 
19:56
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: The first one by Chris 
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: I love the suggestion to change the data uri to a single pixel 
19:58
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/565
 
19:58
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: you're welcome Orie 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: This is from me to update Status List 2021 in light of spec changes. 
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: The v2 data model contains the status context, so we don't need the additional context. And my recommendation would be, do it as part of v2 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: We can close this as stale then. 
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: It's going to get supported in v2 and supporting it in v1 is a lot of work for very little benefit 
19:59
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/566
 
20:00
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: This is support for multiple status lists. This might be another one that has gone stale. 
Ben - Transmute says:Ted: I just noticed, there doesn't appear to have IRC notes going on. 
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: I can try, what do i need to do? 
Ben - Transmute says:Ted: Well yes and no, so far as I know we're still using IRC notes and CGG bot isnt catching anything from this meeting. 
Ben - Transmute says:Ben: I think we can copy it from the chat 
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: Remind me to do that in the end 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Thank you Ted 
20:02
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/543
 
20:02
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Moving onto the next issue. Who is this sakura? 
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: This is Cristina Yasuda from Microsoft. 
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: This is shame time for me, I'm assigned, I need to find time to do it. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Is it still relevant? 
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: It is still relevant. 
20:03
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/544
 
20:04
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: This one is also from Cristina and also assigned to Nis 
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: Are we purging all did-auth? We need that written down somewhere before we make a PR. Not sure what the practical steps are for that. 
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: I remember we can to that decision, but I don't know where we recorded that. 
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: I can make a PR and the acceptance of that PR is the decision. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Should we make a separate issue for this? 
20:05
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/539
 
20:05
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: No we can do it in this issue, I'll make a comment to that effect 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Onto 539 duplicate JSON keys in request 
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: This is one of the PR's we discussed today that we put off on merging pending review. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Chris, can you close this once that PR has been merged? 
20:06
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/562
 
20:06
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: Didn't we delete the agility tutorial? 
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: No it's still there 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Should it be deleted? 
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: Hmmmmm, no. Actually no. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Then the next step is the Agility tutorial needs updating before this can be closed? Is that a separate issue or is that this issue? 
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: That's what remains on this. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: I'll ping Mahmoud about it. 
20:08
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/453
 
20:09
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: This one is from Chris, allow JWT in credential verify 
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: This is one I was going to look at today but ran out of time 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: I'll leave a comment, 'Chris WIP' 
20:09
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
 
20:09
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Next is support for SD-JWT 
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: This one is still in progress which I'm working on in a bundle with all of the v2 stuff. So I'm prepping a project for teleporting to the end. Now that I'm looking on it, I just happened open sourced it. But it's not quite ready for that yet. 
20:10
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/588
 
20:11
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: I asked Mike about this a while ago, but this is old. If anyone has any opinions they should voice on this issue. I'm leaning towards not including CHAPI in our documentation. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Is this relevant, I think the CHAPI context was broken 
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: That's just development experience 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: If no one is interested and Mike probably not getting to this, can we close it with a comment for someone to re-open it. 
20:12
TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)
TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com) says:present+ 
20:13
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Ted: (raised hand) That was supposed to go in the chat 
20:13
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/528
 
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/529
 
20:14
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: This is another issue from Mahmoud. I guess the last couple updates were just checking in on this. I assume this is still relevant. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: If something goes on for too long, what should we do? 
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: We can label it pending close. 
20:15
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/582
 
20:15
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: This is interop summary page improvements. Mahmoud self-assigned last month. So we can ping on this. 
20:15
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/530
 
20:15
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: This is also Mahmoud, contract acknowledgements. Going to ping on this as well. 
20:16
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/506
 
20:16
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: This one is from Mike. Let's see if it still relevant. This is assigned to Orie. 
Ben - Transmute says:Orie: This is also kind of tied up in the v2 comments. Once we walk through how to get support for v2 as soon as possible, then we just say these algorithms are allowed and these are mandatory. This should be trivial after v2 setup. 
20:17
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/359
 
20:18
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: This is pending the 2.0 upgrade 
20:19
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/554
 
20:19
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: What's the issue for linking to PR? 
20:19
Chris Abernethy
Chris Abernethy says:"fixes 123" 
20:19
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Nis: If you associate an issue with "fixes" or "closes" 
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: You can put a comment in a PR that says, "fixes 123" and when it gets merged it will auto close 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: Okay closing. 
20:20
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/460
 
20:20
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Chris: This is just another one I haven't had a chance to get to yet 
20:21
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/576
 
20:21
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: This is for me, update respec document. I have kicked this a couple of times. 
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: I was poking at this last Friday, so I will ping myself 
20:21
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/534
 
20:22
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Russell: This is from Mahmoud and assigned to Mahmoud. This is another ping. 
20:22
Russell H (mesur.io)
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/533
 
Russell H (mesur.io) says:
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/532

20:23
Ben - Transmute
Ben - Transmute says:Arun: We are new to the specification. We have been going through an reading the spec. We would like to get some clarification/help. 
20:26
Nis says:+1 
20:29
