Thanks to Juan Caballero for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Verifiable Credentials HTTP API telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-05-27-vchttpapi 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Credentials HTTP API Telecon Minutes for 2021-05-27

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021May/0157.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions
  2. Change in Call Meeting Time
  3. Review of Updated Architecture Diagrams
  4. Start Authorization Discussion
Resolutions:
  1. Adopt the three diagrams (issuer, verifier, and holder) as 
    initial diagrams to be placed into the specification. It is 
    expected that these diagrams will be iterated upon.
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny
Scribe:
  Juan Caballero
Present:
  Manu Sporny, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Juan Caballero, 
  Aaron Coburn, David Ward, Butch Clark, Adrian Gropper, Ted 
  Thibodeau, Henry Story, Muhamed TurkanoviÄ‡, Brent Zundel, Eric 
  Schuh, Charles E. Lehner, Mike Varley, Charles Edebiri, Marty 
  Reed
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-05-27/audio.ogg

Juan Caballero is scribing.
Manu Sporny:  IPR policy and announcements
Today's agenda: 1.) shift to new call time, 2.) architecture.md 
  review, first iteration into PR 3.) AuthZ talk
Manu Sporny:  AuthZ discussion should be tentative, not trying 
  for resolutions on the call
  ... but rather to give people ideas for issues and resolutions
Eric Schuh:  Reminder that Use Case submissions still very much 
  welcome!
Juan Caballero:  I would say a lot of people have submitted 
  useful starting points that we've tried to iterate [scribe assist 
  by Manu Sporny]
Juan Caballero:  Feel free to expand on what's already written if 
  you think you can contribute in that way [scribe assist by Manu 
  Sporny]
Juan Caballero:  There are a bunch of one-sentence ones that 
  would make a good expanded use case. [scribe assist by Manu 
  Sporny]
<bblfish> worth popping in the URL for the use cases here again.
Manu Sporny:  Other announcements?

Topic: Introductions

  ... self-intros?
Damon Tindall (Rand): filling in for Marty Reed today
Eric Schuh: Link to use cases doc: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit#heading=h.cctvrmgl94xc
Muhamed: Univ of Slovenia blockchain projects
Aaron Coburn (Inrupt): Inrupt researching VCs and the VHAPI for 
  consent purposes
Butch: DISH Network: working on initiative to investigate SSI and 
  drinking from the firehose here
David Ward: also new, work with Rand
Henry Story (Babelfish / Solid): researching VCs
Announcement to new people: There are great 
  onboarding/map-building materials here:
Charles E. Lehner:  Here researching and learning as well, from 
  BCGob
V
Henry Story: The EU project that is sponsoring this 
  implementation of Solid is Solid Control 
  https://nlnet.nl/project/SolidControl/ for researching Access 
  Control and Solid. And Verifiable Credentials is part of it.

Topic: Change in Call Meeting Time

Manu Sporny:  Topic #1 - call times
Scribe would like the record to show AAWW
Manu Sporny:  Clear winner is 4pm tuesdays EST
  ...starting next week

Topic: Review of Updated Architecture Diagrams

  ... Topic #2 - architecture overview updates
Manu Sporny: Issuer Architecture Detail diagram: 
  https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/10IDaack2vKch-CZpGBm8o1nLodyBHeeUsQ7PubIL338/edit
Manu Sporny: Verifier Detail Architecture Diagram: 
  https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/19wJSXTVabVpYJIv1b2hXPPpJ2mPlDkhyYnHylQFwE0Q/edit
Manu Sporny: Holder Architecture Detail Diagram: 
  https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1NhozgPLPWEB8Hyun8MfUBUAudrTIoQ-ONesnq8MncrM/edit
Manu Sporny:  These diagrams reflect last week's feedback
  ... and the hope is that by end of this call we can approve 
  them as a tentative starting point
Adrian Gropper:  Where it says "receive credentials" between 
  issuer and holder, I'm curious where capabilities fit in.  can 
  they also be issued between the same parts?
Manu Sporny:  Good question, i'm not sure we have consensus on 
  scope issue
  ... CHAPI is one way of doing it in a way that has worked so 
  far for many users of this API
  ... i think we need to discuss this in topic #3 a bit
Adrian Gropper:  Ok we'll come back to it, as long as the minutes 
  show that it was proposed
Manu Sporny:  Of course, this is just tentative agreement on a 
  basis for future additions
  ... blue outlines refer to components in scope/focus of this 
  API spec
  ... Reminder: Web Service was chosen here to name superset of 
  websites and machine-to-machine interfaces
  ... objections? none voiced
  ... (resolution forthcoming after review)
  ... Next up: Verifiers
  ... app service added to reflect separation of concerns and 
  order of operations between verification, validation, business 
  logic, etc (but still out of scope of the API)
  ... as in previous diagram, external APIs called out
Aaron Coburn:  Arrows on holder-web service could be going the 
  wrong way, no?
Manu Sporny:  Actually you're right, the push/pull discussion on 
  github is a little unresolved, there are both verifier- and 
  holder-initiated ways of doing this
  ... there might be a "step 0" missing that we should discuss in 
  coming weeks
  ... for now, we should maybe leave it as-is for simplicity's 
  sake and make a note to return to the "start workflow"/step 0 
  later
Muhamed: authority agency implemented a "start workflow" step in 
  our ministry, initiated by holder
Manu Sporny:  That // CHAPI
Adrian Gropper:  Again, capabilities could be passed here instead 
  of VPs.
Manu Sporny:  Yes, to be discussed in topic #3
Henry Story:  In Solid, we have an OWL-style query
  ... that we use before requesting presentations
  ... is this analogous?
Manu Sporny:  Yes, thru an RDF lens, you could say this is like a 
  SPARQL query: server says "these are the tuples i want" and VP is 
  answer to that shaped query
Manu Sporny:  Returning to Adrian's question about Caps is 
  whether the API should work the way CHAPI does or be more 
  generalized/narrowly-scoped
  ... CHAPI is agnostic about request/presentation formats
  ... the question is whether VHAPI should also be a "dumb pipe", 
  like CHAPI is
  ... or whether it should constrain what passes over it (i.e., 
  distinguishing between VPs and ZCaps and other payloads)
  ... does anyone object to this diagram going into the spec as a 
  starting point
(None are voiced)
Manu Sporny:  Third diagram about holders
Manu Sporny:  Review of changes from last week: KMS as distinct 
  component , "Wallet" Service
Adrian Gropper:  Do we need this diagram?
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/176
Muhamed: why wasn't KMS in the issuer and verifier?
  ... or for that matter wallet service
Juan Caballero:  Pointing out that the issue 176 raised by 
  contributors to spec shows a custodial holder / multi-party 
  holder -- assuming architecture for holders is simple/direct -- 
  is not necessarily something we should do. [scribe assist by Manu 
  Sporny]
Juan Caballero:  There is complexity around guardianship, 
  enterprise, custodial, all of those things -- difficulty of 
  mapping this API is why this process is getting complicated -- 
  good to be segmented as holder/issuer/verifier are. [scribe 
  assist by Manu Sporny]
Juan Caballero:  Just to say that part of complexity here comes 
  from use cases like that. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: +1 We feel its very missing
Mike Prorock: +1 Manu - you have hit the nail on the head
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> and super important
Manu Sporny:  Do we need this diagram? short answer is yes. this 
  is one of the parts of the system that the tracevocab group came 
  here to expand the holder options
  ... particularly in cases where multiple legitimate holders 
  pass VCs between them
Juan Caballero: +1
Manu Sporny:  Also want to address Muhamed's question about KMS 
  in issuer/verifier diagrams
  ... we could add KMS and storage to issuer/verifier for 
  completeness
  ... or we could leave it out for simplicity's sake, if it isn't 
  determinant or important
Mike Prorock:  I think that people coming from other contexts 
  might appreciate the "best practices" nod
  ... i.e., seeing it in one diagram and not others, they might 
  assume that they don't need one or shouldn't use one
  ... or get confused
Muhamed: Want to add from experience (on Authority Agent) that 
  issuers often NEED a KMS to be able to participate in VC flows
Manu Sporny:  Question: add to issuer but not to verifier?
<mprorock> verifier as well
Manu Sporny:  Maybe it would help to be explicit: what does the 
  issuer need KMS for, and how does it relate? what are the 
  interfaces?
Mike Prorock:  We tend to try to standardize the usage/reliance 
  on KMS across use-cases and projects
Mike Prorock:  What you're drawing on the screenshare looks like 
  most of our usecases
  ... even things like initiating a TLS require KMS, but maybe 
  it's not worth including that
Manu Sporny:  Caveat: boundaries/boxes a little inaccurate now, 
  needs a tweak
  ... just working on other semantic aspects for now
Manu Sporny:  Any objections to this?
<david_ward> Should the term be Presentations between Verifier 
  and Holder?
Juan Caballero:  My only question, there was a lot of talk for a 
  while about multiple holders -- should we include some visual 
  reference for that concept? [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Juan Caballero:  Is another holder a verifier for the purposes of 
  the interaction? [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Manu Sporny:  You could stack all of these boxes-- there could be 
  multiple of any of these
  ... and because a realworld entity could occupy all three roles 
  at one time or in one interactions
  ... so if a holder is send to another holder, that 2nd holder 
  is verifier
<tallted>	holder -> Holder does *not* imply the recipient is a 
  Verifier, and is a different situation than multiple Issuers (to 
  one or many Holders) or multiple Verifiers (receiving from one or 
  many Holders)
  ... so let's keep the diagram simple and explain the 
  variability in the text as how to interpret it
Ted Thibodeau:  I think a holder-to-holder transfer will be 
  distinct and have its own properties
Manu Sporny:  New diagram probably better than adding that to 
  these
Ted Thibodeau:  Agreed
Manu Sporny:  Proposal incoming
David Ward: should "Credentials" be "Presentations" on the 
  exchange arrow axis?
Manu Sporny:  Yes, missed that! thanks, updating now

PROPOSAL:  Adopt the three diagrams (issuer, verifier, and 
  holder) as initial diagrams to be placed into the specification. 
  It is expected that these diagrams will be iterated upon.

Manu Sporny:  (Proposal)
Mike Prorock: +1
Mike Varley: +1
Juan Caballero: +1
Aaron Coburn: +1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: +1
Eric Schuh: +1
Ted Thibodeau: +1
Charles Edebiri: +1
Adrian Gropper: +0
<muhamed_turkanoviÃ¤â€¡_(blockchain_lab:um)> 0
Manu Sporny: +1
Marty Reed: +1

RESOLUTION: Adopt the three diagrams (issuer, verifier, and 
  holder) as initial diagrams to be placed into the specification. 
  It is expected that these diagrams will be iterated upon.

Topic: Start Authorization Discussion

Manu Sporny:  Overview of discussion to date: pros and cons of 
  prior art and of ZCaps (W3C draft spec used by many involved 
  companies)
  ... would like to hear from companies involved
Adrian Gropper:  Arguments against OAuth2 are mostly about 
  delegation
  ... I feel that OAuth2 has human rights issues and that 
  specifying it would open a delegation can of worms
  ... and my experiences with delegation problems in UMA are why 
  i am so emphatic here
Mike Varley:  SecureKey is supportive of GNAP and anchoring 
  delegation in end-user
  ... but I also think this spec could and should specify how VCs 
  handle credentials (perhaps with ZCaps)
Mike Prorock:  Oauth isn't perfect, but it is industry standard 
  and it is what everyone who we want to use this API is currently 
  using, including all of our customers
  ... i cannot take GNAP today to any of my customers, to be 
  blunt. it will get there but today, at a minimum, we have to find 
  a way to meet people where they are
Mike Varley: +1 Too GNAP being "early".
Muhamed: I just want to ask if we are talking about authZ or 
  authN too?
Manu Sporny:  AuthN happens through other protocols, and is out 
  of scope (this API assumes parties are already authN to each 
  other)
Henry Story:  I'm also trying to get a firmer grip on the 
  language. I tend to think of authZ as a description of what 
  attributes should be requested and sent.
  ... you're thinking of every application jumping around along 
  links and fetching data, as they do today in a browser; wallet 
  has no idea where it will go next to fetch what it needs; OAuth 
  is a problem here and VCs can help here
  ... this makes for a very different AuthZ topology versus 
  "loggin in and staying in" at each website
Adrian Gropper:  I want to avoid framing zero-sum either/or 
  argument. I want this spec to require GNAP either on top of or 
  alongside OAuth
  ... i think issuers and institutions will not adopt GNAP 
  without the kind of pressure that would come from this spec 
  requiring it or specifying it as the best way to get holder 
  consent/involvement at a low level
Mike Prorock: I would note we have a system to system use case 
  primarily, not an end user facing system (typically at this 
  stage), hence Authorization: Bearer ........
Manu Sporny:  To address Henry's comment, i think there is a 
  terminology mismatch
  ... you mean the process of getting authorization to do 
  somethign
  ... but here we mean more like authZ check, i.e., "are you 
  authorized to be checking this endpoint? "
Manu Sporny:  To address Adrian, I think there is too much 
  confusion around "who is on sovereign" and it should get clearer 
  over time
  ... no is against OAuth2, and it is minimum we can do.  
  consensus seems to be "putting GNAP, ZCaps, and other upgrades 
  alongside OAuth"
Mike Prorock: +1 Allow others as they become adopted at a broader 
  scale
<bblfish> I guess I need to really understand what is meant here 
  by authZ
  ... we should think about how to make OAuth the 
  minimum/basement and specify preferences for upgrade paths
<muhamed_turkanoviÃ¤â€¡_(blockchain_lab:um)> few question for next 
  time:
<muhamed_turkanoviÃ¤â€¡_(blockchain_lab:um)> And what about 
  authentication of the holder towards the issuer/verifier (maybe 
  in terms of legacy PKI systems)?
Eric Schuh: Use cases doc: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit#heading=h.cctvrmgl94xc
<mprorock> thanks for facilitating manu!
Manu Sporny:  Next week, please get in touch to add to the agenda 
  and think about authZ
Thanks all
