Thanks to kevin_[spruce_systems] for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Verifiable Credentials HTTP API telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-06-15-vchttpapi 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Credentials HTTP API Telecon Minutes for 2021-06-15

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jun/0149.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions
  2. Use Cases Update
  3. Pull Request Processing
  4. Issue Processing
  5. Authorization Proposals
Resolutions:
  1. Split the current vc-http-api repository into a 
    "specification" repository and a "test suite" repository. Provide 
    a transition plan to the CCG if links are going to break.
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny
Scribe:
  kevin_[spruce_systems]
Present:
  Manu Sporny, Kevin [Spruce_Systems], Adrian Gropper, Justin 
  Richer, Charles E._Lehner_[cel], Aaron Coburn, Mike Prorock, 
  Michael Herman, Sanuja (Diwala), Orie Steele, Eric Schuh, Joe 
  Andrieu, Mike Varley, Dmitri Z, Bumblefudge, Brian Sletten, 
  Dmitri Zagidulin, TallTed 
  //_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com), Vaishnavi, David 
  Ward, Brian Richter, Charles E. Lehner, Marty Reed, Butch Clark, 
  Juan Caballero, Kaliya Young, Ted Thibodeau, Troy Ronda
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-06-15/audio.ogg

kevin_[spruce_systems] is scribing.

Topic: Introductions

Brian Richter:  Hi, Brian Richter, I work at Aviary Tech, been 
  involved in some of the conversations on the mailing list, 
  interested in the VC HTTP API.
Charles E. Lehner:  Hi, Charles Lerner, with Spruce, I haven't 
  been here for a while, developer doing work on DIDs and the like.
<bumblefudge> brian or whatever?

Topic: Use Cases Update

<bumblefudge> @Adrian, I just saw your new one-- love it, but 
  could use more actors!
Eric Schuh:  Today was deadline for new use cases. Ideally start 
  reviewing on Thursday, and will do a first pass. Expected to have 
  something for next week's call
Juan Caballero:  Lot of use cases are there, some just need a few 
  more "steps". Pay attention to Google inbox everyone
<joe_andrieu> I do have an item to raise
<joe_andrieu> We sometimes see people talking passed each other 
  becuase "verifier" is used both for the *role* per VC spec as 
  well as the software that is responding to the "verifier" api
<joe_andrieu> "verifier" does xyz is sometimes confusing
<joe_andrieu> not sure how to resolve. just wanted to anchor it 
  as a thing to figure out.
<joe_andrieu> verifier (role) uses verifier (software) which 
  becomes "verifier uses verifier"
Juan Caballero:  Clarification on Joe: The mapping between 
  software and real word verbiage is slippery (ex: Verifier)
Manu Sporny:  Good start to the discussion, agree with Joe on 
  specifying (role) or (software), let's take the discussion to the 
  mailing list.
Joe Andrieu: +1 To mailing list

Topic: Pull Request Processing

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/197
Charles E. Lehner:  PR 197 is useful when there's multiple proof 
  types, and the type parameter can select one.
Manu Sporny:  PR is ready to go, will be merged in day or two.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/195
<mprorock> spec links
Orie Steele:  Did not set up w3c redirects, causing HTML errors. 
  Changes were reverted upon Manu's request. This PR has single 
  respec document ...
Orie Steele: I have already setup w3id.org: 
  https://github.com/perma-id/w3id.org/pull/2211
<bumblefudge> that was the resolution in the minutes, as i 
  remember it
Orie Steele:  We could begin the process for splitting the test 
  suite. Concerned about the nature of the test repo. Concerned 
  about breaking links, but we should announce the breaking and 
  where new items are in the repos.
Manu Sporny:  A new proposal: To split the current VC-HTTP-API 
  repository to a specification repository and a test suite 
  repository, provide transition plans to CCG, if links are going 
  to break
Mike Prorock: +1
Orie Steele: +1

PROPOSAL:  Split the current vc-http-api repository into a 
  "specification" repository and a "test suite" repository. Provide 
  a transition plan to the CCG if links are going to break.

Orie Steele: +1
Mike Prorock: +1
Manu Sporny: +1
Joe Andrieu: +1
Dmitri Zagidulin: +1
Mike Varley: +1
<bumblefudge> oh sorry i was +1ing Kevin's summary :D
Ted Thibodeau: +1
Eric Schuh: +1
Adrian Gropper: +1
Brian Richter: +1

RESOLUTION: Split the current vc-http-api repository into a 
  "specification" repository and a "test suite" repository. Provide 
  a transition plan to the CCG if links are going to break.

Orie Steele: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-http-api/
Orie Steele:  My PR makes spec render properly, it's an interim 
  step based on resolution above, should we merge it?
Manu Sporny:  Fine to merge at this point, any objections?
No objections, moving on.

Topic: Issue Processing

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/130
Manu Sporny:  I think we can close this, overtaken by events, any 
  objections?
Orie Steele:  Well, the title is wrong now, but the issue remains 
  -- we want to agree to an interop profile.
<mike_varley> sorry all have to drop.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/37
Manu Sporny:  The spec now has the CCG as the contact person, so 
  this issue can be closed. Any objections?
No objections.
Manu Sporny:  Ok, issue 37 will be closed.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/184
Orie Steele:  The test suite does a lot, so it's more of an 
  integration tests rather than unit tests. One of the tests that 
  might resolve in a lot of errors is DID Resolution. The proposal 
  proposes using DID Key instead to reduce that
Orie Steele: +1 Justin, we are trying to do what you are 
  proposing... we don't want you to need to run a blockchain or 
  trust someone who does, to pass the tests.
Manu Sporny: +1 To what Justin is saying as well.
<justin_richer> mocks are 100% required for proper testing
<justin_richer> anybody who says otherwise is kidding themselves
<orie> I agree, but the way the tests are written today, they are 
  "not mockable"
Manu Sporny: PSEUDO PROPOSAL: Refactor the test suite so that 
  resolution is factored out in a way that can be mocked and where, 
  in the very least, did:key is supported as the only mandatory DID 
  format for the test suite.
Justin Richer:  Feels close enough. generally agrees with 
  proposal
Manu Sporny: PSEUDO PROPOSAL: Refactor the test suite to support 
  did:key as the only mandatory DID format for the test suite.
Justin Richer:  Don't think that its strong enough.
<orie> I would be fine with Justin's proposal FWIIW
<orie> I hope folks realize the developer cost for it, but its 
  doable.
<manu> It is a higher developer cost for the first item vs. the 
  second one
<manu> and it'll ultimately come down to people doing the work... 
  both are doable.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> PSEUDO 
  PROPOSAL: Refactor the test suite to isolate DID resolution in 
  such a way that it can be mocked, and make did;key the only DID 
  format that must be supported to run the test suite
Justin Richer:  As part of the test definitions, "these are the 
  things i'm going to send to you", and then you spit back the 
  answers. If the test suite defines everything with DID Key and 
  can do that, it's fine. It will be very useful for testing of 
  values. First proposal is fine and run it
Orie Steele: +1 Justin

PROPOSAL:  Refactor the test suite to isolate DID resolution in 
  such a way that it can be mocked, and make did;key the only DID 
  format that must be supported to run the test suite.

Justin Richer: +1
<orie> +.8
<mprorock> +.75
<manu> +0.7 I think the other one is more straight forward to 
  start with
Brian Richter: +1
<joeandrieu> +.7
<butch_clark> +.8
<agropper> +/-
<cel> +0.5
<aaron_coburn> +.75

PROPOSAL:  Refactor the test suite to support did;key as the only 
  mandatory DID format for the test suite.

Orie Steele: +1
Mike Prorock: +1
Manu Sporny: +1
<justin_richer> +0.5
Brian Richter: +1
<agropper> +.5
<cel> +0.5
<joeandrieu> +0.1
Orie Steele: Yeah, we basically just voted to do lesss work :)
<orie> unsurprising.
Justin Richer: Just define it with did:key as required from the 
  test suite harness and move on with life
<manu> Ok, we have 9 minutes left in the call, do we want to keep 
  going on this issue, or switch over to Authorization?
<mprorock> auth please
<bumblefudge> authZ
<bumblefudge> mutli-proposal showdown plz

Topic: Authorization Proposals

Manu Sporny: We are going to process these concrete proposals 
  sent to the mailing list: 
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jun/0177.html
Manu Sporny:  We are just going to run them since they've been 
  discussed on the mailing list fairly extensively.

PROPOSAL:  The W3C CCG VC-HTTPI-API TF and IETF-GNAP-WG agree to 
  joint IPR protected development of the GNAP specification.

Orie Steele: -1
<justin_richer> -1, pretty sure that's not legal per IETF 
  policies
Manu Sporny: -1
Adrian Gropper: +0
Brian Richter: -1
<justin_richer> (you can all join GNAP WG in IETF, it's free...)
<joeandrieu> 0
Manu Sporny:  This one isn't going to make it, moving on...

PROPOSAL:  The W3C CCG VC-HTTPI-API DRAFT normatively recommends 
  using IETF-GNAP-DRAFT.

Orie Steele: -1
Mike Prorock: -1
Justin Richer: +0
Joe Andrieu: -1
Adrian Gropper: +1
Brian Richter: -1
Dmitri Zagidulin: -0
<justin_richer> (depends on "normatively recommend")
<manu> -1, but I do want to say something good non-normatively 
  about GNAP
<butch_clark> -.5
<bumblefudge> ^ yes
<bumblefudge> non-normative bring it on
Manu Sporny:  This one isn't going to make it, moving on...

PROPOSAL:  The W3C CCG VC-HTTPI-API DRAFT does not mention 
  IETF-GNAP-DRAFT.

Orie Steele: +1
Justin Richer: -1
Mike Prorock: +1
Adrian Gropper: -1
<manu> -0.5 -- I'd like to mention it in the spec.
<bumblefudge> not even non-normatively?
Dmitri Zagidulin: -1
Joe Andrieu: +1
<brian_richter> -0.5
<cel> HTTPI?
<bumblefudge> 0 because i like free reign in the non-normative 
  sections :D

PROPOSAL:  The W3C CCG VC-HTTPI-API DRAFT informally suggests not 
  using IETF-GNAP-DRAFT.

Justin Richer: -1
Adrian Gropper: -1
Orie Steele: +1 For now.
Mike Prorock: +1
Manu Sporny: -1 -- We should mention it
<mprorock> given current state
Joe Andrieu: -1
Manu Sporny:  People are more on the fence about this one, but 
  there are enough objections to move on to a better proposal.

PROPOSAL:  The W3C CCG VC-HTTPI-API DRAFT normatively forbids 
  using IETF-GNAP-DRAFT.

Justin Richer: -1
Brian Richter: -1
Manu Sporny: -1 No, please
Adrian Gropper: -1
Orie Steele: +1 For now.
Joe Andrieu: -1
<justin_richer> Orie, forbid, really?
Orie Steele:  I am good with forbidding it now and for the next 
  couple of months... there is nothing solid there to base our 
  specification on, my votes don't scale into the future, if GNAP 
  becomes an RFC, that changes my votes.
<mprorock> +.5
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie
<mprorock> highly nuanced topic
Orie Steele: Hey neither are DIDs :)
Justin Richer:  GNAP is an official IETF WG work item, it is more 
  than just a draft, which is more than some of the other stuff 
  this group depends on in their specifications.
<orie> Thanks for the clarity Justin, that's helpful.
<bumblefudge> some of my best friends are unstable community 
  drafts
<justin_richer> saying "it's just a draft" is not the whole story 
  and misses a lot of what's there. The core is basically stable 
  today, according to the editors and chairs.
