[2021-06-15T20:01:00.267Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:01:00.267Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Chair: Manu
[2021-06-15T20:01:00.268Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:01:00.269Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:01:00.269Z]	<Justin_Richer>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:01:00.270Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner_[cel]>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:01:01.665Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:01:07.476Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:01:15.164Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:01:16.871Z]	<Sanuja_(Diwala)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:01:37.348Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:01:42.816Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:01:43.941Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:01:50.753Z]	<Mike_Varley>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:02:08.771Z]	<manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jun/0149.html
[2021-06-15T20:02:14.154Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:02:16.596Z]	<Bumblefudge>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:02:21.117Z]	<Brian>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:03:17.401Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:03:17.472Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:03:25.319Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:03:59.401Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:04:31.918Z]	<Vaishnavi>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:04:43.236Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:05:27.929Z]	<manu>	scribe: Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]
[2021-06-15T20:05:49.331Z]	<manu>	Topic: Introductions
[2021-06-15T20:05:13.765Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Richter: Hi, Brian Richter, I work at Aviary Tech, been involved in some of the conversations on the mailing list, interested in the VC HTTP API.
[2021-06-15T20:05:13.765Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Lehner: Hi, Charles Lerner, with Spruce, I haven't been here for a while, developer doing work on DIDs and the like.
[2021-06-15T20:05:55.871Z]	<Bumblefudge>	brian or whatever?
[2021-06-15T20:06:00.537Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:06:26.283Z]	<cel>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:06:33.356Z]	<manu>	ack cel
[2021-06-15T20:07:02.943Z]	<manu>	Topic: Use Cases Update
[2021-06-15T20:07:58.205Z]	<Bumblefudge>	@Adrian, I just saw your new one-- love it, but could use more actors!
[2021-06-15T20:08:00.325Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Schuh: Today was deadline for new use cases. Ideally start reviewing on Thursday, and will do a first pass. Expected to have something for next week's call
[2021-06-15T20:08:37.624Z]	<Butch_Clark>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:09:48.642Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Juan: Lot of use cases are there, some just need a few more "steps". Pay attention to Google inbox everyone
[2021-06-15T20:09:49.373Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	I do have an item to raise
[2021-06-15T20:10:18.562Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:10:30.212Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	We sometimes see people talking passed each other becuase "verifier" is used both for the *role* per VC spec as well as the software that is responding to the "verifier" api
[2021-06-15T20:10:53.510Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	"verifier" does xyz is sometimes confusing
[2021-06-15T20:10:53.934Z]	<Bumblefudge>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:11:08.092Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	not sure how to resolve. just wanted to anchor it as a thing to figure out.
[2021-06-15T20:11:53.904Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:12:24.991Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	verifier (role) uses verifier (software) which becomes "verifier uses verifier"
[2021-06-15T20:12:29.864Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Juan: Clarification on Joe: The mapping between software and real word verbiage is slippery (ex: Verifier)
[2021-06-15T20:12:34.076Z]	<Bumblefudge>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:12:29.864Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Manu: Good start to the discussion, agree with Joe on specifying (role) or (software), let's take the discussion to the mailing list.
[2021-06-15T20:12:44.548Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1 to mailing list
[2021-06-15T20:13:06.963Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:13:08.164Z]	<manu>	Topic: Pull Request Processing
[2021-06-15T20:13:11.135Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-06-15T20:13:13.942Z]	<manu>	ack Bumble
[2021-06-15T20:13:19.036Z]	<Bumblefudge>	q-
[2021-06-15T20:13:27.850Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/197
[2021-06-15T20:13:30.492Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:14:27.178Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Lehner: PR 197 is useful when there's multiple proof types, and the type parameter can select one.
[2021-06-15T20:15:40.999Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Manu: PR is ready to go, will be merged in day or two.
[2021-06-15T20:15:46.107Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/195
[2021-06-15T20:16:12.086Z]	<mprorock>	spec links
[2021-06-15T20:17:07.337Z]	<manu>	q+ to provide some feedback -- stable links, test suite reports, and the spec.
[2021-06-15T20:18:17.537Z]	<IdentityWoman>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:18:42.644Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Orie: Did not set up w3c redirects, causing HTML errors. Changes were reverted upon Manu's request. This PR has single respec document ...
[2021-06-15T20:19:25.719Z]	<Orie>	I have already setup w3id.org: https://github.com/perma-id/w3id.org/pull/2211
[2021-06-15T20:20:30.603Z]	<Orie>	q+ to note the problem with "test suite" today.
[2021-06-15T20:20:58.832Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:21:03.413Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-15T20:21:05.146Z]	<manu>	ack orie
[2021-06-15T20:22:27.938Z]	<Bumblefudge>	that was the resolution in the minutes, as i remember it
[2021-06-15T20:23:13.972Z]	<manu>	q+ to propose something concrete -- split "spec" and "test suite" work into two separate repositories.
[2021-06-15T20:23:16.172Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Orie: We could begin the process for splitting the test suite. Concerned about the nature of the test repo. Concerned about breaking links, but we should announce the breaking and where new items are in the repos.
[2021-06-15T20:24:07.235Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:24:16.519Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Manu: A new proposal: To split the current VC-HTTP-API repository to a specification repository and a test suite repository, provide transition plans to CCG, if links are going to break
[2021-06-15T20:24:48.498Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:24:51.164Z]	<Bumblefudge>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:24:51.407Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:24:53.545Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:24:56.028Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL: Split the current vc-http-api repository into a "specification" repository and a "test suite" repository. Provide a transition plan to the CCG if links are going to break.
[2021-06-15T20:24:58.734Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:24:58.801Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:24:59.337Z]	<manu>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:25:00.928Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:25:02.346Z]	<dmitriz>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:25:02.752Z]	<Mike_Varley>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:25:03.463Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:25:04.858Z]	<Bumblefudge>	oh sorry i was +1ing Kevin's summary :D
[2021-06-15T20:25:07.546Z]	<Bumblefudge>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:25:08.241Z]	<TallTed>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:25:08.818Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:25:10.803Z]	<agropper>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:25:11.853Z]	<Vaishnavi>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:25:11.997Z]	<Butch_Clark>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:25:21.091Z]	<Brian_Richter>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:25:38.350Z]	<manu>	RESOLVED: Split the current vc-http-api repository into a "specification" repository and a "test suite" repository. Provide a transition plan to the CCG if links are going to break.
[2021-06-15T20:26:02.100Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:26:10.014Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-15T20:26:11.579Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-06-15T20:28:22.119Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-http-api/
[2021-06-15T20:29:24.429Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Orie: My PR makes spec render properly, it's an interim step based on resolution above, should we merge it?
[2021-06-15T20:29:24.429Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Manu: Fine to merge at this point, any objections?
[2021-06-15T20:29:24.429Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	No objections, moving on.
[2021-06-15T20:27:43.856Z]	<manu>	Topic: Issue Processing
[2021-06-15T20:27:49.226Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:27:56.799Z]	<Orie>	q+ ?
[2021-06-15T20:28:00.229Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:28:03.953Z]	<Orie>	ack ?
[2021-06-15T20:28:12.300Z]	<manu>	ack orie
[2021-06-15T20:29:35.533Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/130
[2021-06-15T20:31:06.740Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Manu: I think we can close this, overtaken by events, any objections?
[2021-06-15T20:31:06.740Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Orie: Well, the title is wrong now, but the issue remains -- we want to agree to an interop profile.
[2021-06-15T20:30:51.286Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:31:06.740Z]	<Mike_Varley>	sorry all have to drop.
[2021-06-15T20:31:15.423Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:31:42.546Z]	<Troy_Ronda>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:32:02.117Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-15T20:32:03.569Z]	<manu>	ack orie
[2021-06-15T20:32:42.449Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/37
[2021-06-15T20:33:14.803Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Manu: The spec now has the CCG as the contact person, so this issue can be closed. Any objections?
[2021-06-15T20:33:14.803Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	No objections.
[2021-06-15T20:33:14.803Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Manu: Ok, issue 37 will be closed.
[2021-06-15T20:33:21.138Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:34:14.683Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:32:42.449Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/184
[2021-06-15T20:34:49.977Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Orie: The test suite does a lot, so it's more of an integration tests rather than unit tests. One of the tests that might resolve in a lot of errors is DID Resolution. The proposal proposes using DID Key instead to reduce that
[2021-06-15T20:34:55.618Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:35:07.785Z]	<manu>	ack orie
[2021-06-15T20:35:30.464Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:35:39.626Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:35:51.110Z]	<manu>	ack Justin
[2021-06-15T20:37:07.810Z]	<Orie>	+1 Justin, we are trying to do what you are proposing... we don't want you to need to run a blockchain or trust someone who does, to pass the tests.
[2021-06-15T20:37:21.161Z]	<manu>	+1 to what Justin is saying as well.
[2021-06-15T20:38:04.604Z]	<Orie>	q+ to note there were objections to "stubbing / mocking" the tests... on previous calls
[2021-06-15T20:38:25.654Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-06-15T20:39:21.854Z]	<Justin_Richer>	mocks are 100% required for proper testing
[2021-06-15T20:39:37.239Z]	<Justin_Richer>	anybody who says otherwise is kidding themselves
[2021-06-15T20:39:59.941Z]	<Orie>	I agree, but the way the tests are written today, they are "not mockable"
[2021-06-15T20:40:20.107Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	PSEUDO PROPOSAL: Refactor the test suite so that resolution is factored out in a way that can be mocked and where, in the very least, did:key is supported as the only mandatory DID format for the test suite.
[2021-06-15T20:40:36.160Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:40:44.231Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:41:24.698Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-06-15T20:42:44.258Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Richer: Feels close enough. generally agrees with proposal

Orie: Thinks it captures the spirit as well.
[2021-06-15T20:43:05.723Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:43:22.790Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:45:10.614Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	PSEUDO PROPOSAL: Refactor the test suite to support did:key as the only mandatory DID format for the test suite.
[2021-06-15T20:45:39.716Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:45:44.935Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:45:51.299Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Richer: Don't think that its strong enough.
[2021-06-15T20:45:58.258Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-06-15T20:46:00.312Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-06-15T20:46:35.894Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:46:49.281Z]	<manu>	ack Justin
[2021-06-15T20:46:55.036Z]	<manu>	q+ to just run both proposals
[2021-06-15T20:46:56.166Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:47:18.862Z]	<Orie>	I would be fine with Justin's proposal FWIIW
[2021-06-15T20:47:39.299Z]	<Orie>	I hope folks realize the developer cost for it, but its doable.
[2021-06-15T20:47:58.260Z]	<manu>	It is a higher developer cost for the first item vs. the second one
[2021-06-15T20:48:12.011Z]	<manu>	and it'll ultimately come down to people doing the work... both are doable.
[2021-06-15T20:48:13.459Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)>	PSEUDO PROPOSAL: Refactor the test suite to isolate DID resolution in such a way that it can be mocked, and make did;key the only DID format that must be supported to run the test suite
[2021-06-15T20:48:29.135Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Richer: As part of the test definitions, "these are the things i'm going to send to you", and then you spit back the answers. If the test suite defines everything with DID Key and can do that, it's fine. It will be very useful for testing of values. First proposal is fine and run it
[2021-06-15T20:48:31.993Z]	<Orie>	+1 Justin
[2021-06-15T20:49:00.912Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:49:26.420Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL: Refactor the test suite to isolate DID resolution in such a way that it can be mocked, and make did;key the only DID format that must be supported to run the test suite.
[2021-06-15T20:49:29.301Z]	<Justin_Richer>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:49:35.543Z]	<Orie>	+.8
[2021-06-15T20:49:42.503Z]	<mprorock>	+.75
[2021-06-15T20:49:43.117Z]	<manu>	+0.7 I think the other one is more straight forward to start with
[2021-06-15T20:49:45.055Z]	<Brian_Richter>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:49:49.472Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	+.7
[2021-06-15T20:49:52.182Z]	<Butch_Clark>	+.8
[2021-06-15T20:49:53.681Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:49:55.653Z]	<agropper>	+/-
[2021-06-15T20:49:59.403Z]	<cel>	+0.5
[2021-06-15T20:50:14.557Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	+.75
[2021-06-15T20:50:18.911Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:50:41.696Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:51:08.201Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL: Refactor the test suite to support did;key as the only mandatory DID format for the test suite.
[2021-06-15T20:51:16.247Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:51:17.209Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:51:18.679Z]	<manu>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:51:22.292Z]	<Vaishnavi>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:51:23.234Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:51:24.400Z]	<Justin_Richer>	+0.5
[2021-06-15T20:51:27.769Z]	<Brian_Richter>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:51:29.765Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:51:35.170Z]	<agropper>	+.5
[2021-06-15T20:51:38.435Z]	<cel>	+0.5
[2021-06-15T20:51:42.404Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	+0.1
[2021-06-15T20:52:04.943Z]	<Orie>	yeah, we basically just voted to do lesss work :)
[2021-06-15T20:52:25.320Z]	<Orie>	unsurprising.
[2021-06-15T20:52:42.753Z]	<Justin_Richer>	just define it with did:key as required from the test suite harness and move on with life
[2021-06-15T20:52:42.753Z]	<manu>	Ok, we have 9 minutes left in the call, do we want to keep going on this issue, or switch over to Authorization?
[2021-06-15T20:52:55.941Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:52:56.432Z]	<mprorock>	auth please
[2021-06-15T20:53:00.466Z]	<Bumblefudge>	authZ
[2021-06-15T20:53:00.955Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-15T20:53:03.230Z]	<manu>	ack orie
[2021-06-15T20:53:15.762Z]	<Bumblefudge>	mutli-proposal showdown plz
[2021-06-15T20:53:43.125Z]	<manu>	Topic: Authorization Proposals
[2021-06-15T20:54:32.179Z]	<manu>	We are going to process these concrete proposals sent to the mailing list: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jun/0177.html
[2021-06-15T20:54:32.180Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	manu: We are just going to run them since they've been discussed on the mailing list fairly extensively.
[2021-06-15T20:55:00.836Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL: The W3C CCG VC-HTTPI-API TF and IETF-GNAP-WG agree to joint IPR protected development of the GNAP specification.
[2021-06-15T20:55:07.382Z]	<Orie>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:55:08.053Z]	<Justin_Richer>	-1, pretty sure that's not legal per IETF policies
[2021-06-15T20:55:11.940Z]	<manu>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:55:15.316Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:55:18.048Z]	<agropper>	+0
[2021-06-15T20:55:20.652Z]	<Brian_Richter>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:55:21.478Z]	<Butch_Clark>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:55:21.960Z]	<Bumblefudge>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:55:28.886Z]	<Justin_Richer>	(you can all join GNAP WG in IETF, it's free...)
[2021-06-15T20:55:29.028Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	0
[2021-06-15T20:54:32.180Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	manu: This one isn't going to make it, moving on...
[2021-06-15T20:55:35.637Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-06-15T20:55:44.232Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL: The W3C CCG VC-HTTPI-API DRAFT normatively recommends using IETF-GNAP-DRAFT.
[2021-06-15T20:55:51.896Z]	<Orie>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:55:55.555Z]	<mprorock>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:55:56.799Z]	<Justin_Richer>	+0
[2021-06-15T20:55:56.936Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:55:58.680Z]	<agropper>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:56:02.322Z]	<Brian_Richter>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:56:02.963Z]	<dmitriz>	-0
[2021-06-15T20:56:07.148Z]	<Bumblefudge>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:56:07.710Z]	<Justin_Richer>	(depends on "normatively recommend")
[2021-06-15T20:56:09.393Z]	<manu>	-1, but I do want to say something good non-normatively about GNAP
[2021-06-15T20:56:15.949Z]	<Butch_Clark>	-.5
[2021-06-15T20:56:16.578Z]	<Bumblefudge>	^ yes
[2021-06-15T20:56:21.562Z]	<Bumblefudge>	non-normative bring it on
[2021-06-15T20:54:32.180Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	manu: This one isn't going to make it, moving on...
[2021-06-15T20:56:28.235Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL: The W3C CCG VC-HTTPI-API DRAFT does not mention IETF-GNAP-DRAFT.
[2021-06-15T20:56:29.260Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:56:30.591Z]	<Justin_Richer>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:56:30.913Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:56:33.343Z]	<agropper>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:56:33.557Z]	<Butch_Clark>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:56:34.339Z]	<David_Ward>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:56:41.481Z]	<manu>	-0.5 -- I'd like to mention it in the spec.
[2021-06-15T20:56:44.174Z]	<Bumblefudge>	not even non-normatively?
[2021-06-15T20:56:50.034Z]	<dmitriz>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:56:50.897Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:57:00.274Z]	<Brian_Richter>	-0.5
[2021-06-15T20:57:03.760Z]	<cel>	HTTPI?
[2021-06-15T20:57:09.413Z]	<Bumblefudge>	0 because i like free reign in the non-normative sections :D
[2021-06-15T20:57:36.478Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL: The W3C CCG VC-HTTPI-API DRAFT informally suggests not using IETF-GNAP-DRAFT.
[2021-06-15T20:57:38.385Z]	<Justin_Richer>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:57:41.498Z]	<agropper>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:57:42.497Z]	<Butch_Clark>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:57:42.661Z]	<Orie>	+1 for now.
[2021-06-15T20:57:45.082Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:57:48.545Z]	<manu>	-1 -- we should mention it
[2021-06-15T20:57:50.487Z]	<mprorock>	given current state
[2021-06-15T20:57:53.363Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:57:58.458Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:54:32.180Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	manu: People are more on the fence about this one, but there are enough objections to move on to a better proposal.
[2021-06-15T20:58:10.072Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL: The W3C CCG VC-HTTPI-API DRAFT normatively forbids using IETF-GNAP-DRAFT.
[2021-06-15T20:58:11.526Z]	<Justin_Richer>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:58:12.411Z]	<Brian_Richter>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:58:13.179Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:58:13.187Z]	<manu>	-1 no, please
[2021-06-15T20:58:13.550Z]	<agropper>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:58:14.590Z]	<Orie>	+1 for now.
[2021-06-15T20:58:14.935Z]	<Butch_Clark>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:58:15.056Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:58:16.712Z]	<David_Ward>	-1
[2021-06-15T20:58:25.267Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:58:28.391Z]	<Justin_Richer>	Orie, forbid, really?
[2021-06-15T20:58:28.391Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Orie: I am good with forbidding it now and for the next couple of months... there is nothing solid there to base our specification on, my votes don't scale into the future, if GNAP becomes an RFC, that changes my votes.
[2021-06-15T20:58:29.641Z]	<mprorock>	+.5
[2021-06-15T20:58:50.288Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-06-15T20:59:17.317Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie
[2021-06-15T20:59:47.591Z]	<Bumblefudge>	+1
[2021-06-15T20:59:50.771Z]	<mprorock>	highly nuanced topic
[2021-06-15T21:00:16.661Z]	<Orie>	hey neither are DIDs :)
[2021-06-15T20:58:28.391Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	Justin: GNAP is an official IETF WG work item, it is more than just a draft, which is more than some of the other stuff this group depends on in their specifications.
[2021-06-15T21:00:27.038Z]	<Orie>	Thanks for the clarity Justin, that's helpful.
[2021-06-15T21:00:30.191Z]	<manu>	ack orie
[2021-06-15T21:00:31.576Z]	<manu>	ack justin
[2021-06-15T21:00:35.046Z]	<Bumblefudge>	some of my best friends are unstable community drafts
[2021-06-15T21:01:15.490Z]	<Justin_Richer>	saying "it's just a draft" is not the whole story and misses a lot of what's there. The core is basically stable today, according to the editors and chairs.
[2021-06-15T21:01:39.090Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
