Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Nis Jespersen  and Our Robot Overlords and Nis Jespersen  for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-04-02-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-04-02-traceability/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-04-02.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2024-04-02

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Apr&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Nis Jespersen  and Our Robot Overlords and Nis Jespersen 
Present:
  Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Patrick St-Louis, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau 
  (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Nis Jespersen , Chris Abernethy, Ted 
  Thibodeau

<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> that works 
  so much better when I click the right meeting title...
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/636
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Patrick St-Louis:  Announcement page you know they provide the 
  link and the time of the meeting so I I don't know where else 
  that sort of information is available.
Nis Jespersen  is scribing.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Nis Jespersen  is scribing.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/636
Chris Abernethy:  Might not be able to make it, but Brent will 
  take over anyway. Starting next week
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Objections to the Thursday simeslot?
Next meeting is on Thursday April 11th
Patrick St-Louis:  My general impression of implementing this 
  specification. There is a conversation to be had regarding 
  interoperaability. What does it mean to be an implementer? What 
  is the purpose of being an implementer? To be addressed?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  To an extend this will be addressed by PRs
Patrick St-Louis:  I pass 99% but am non conformant. Frustrating. 
  Requirements changes. There is no way for me to comply. BC Gov is 
  a government interested in complying. Raised concerns for me.
Push back on PR. So, what does it mean to be an implementer of 
  interop?
Nis Jespersen :  We have been reflecting on having overstepped 
  what is actually interoperability
Patrick St-Louis:  Yes, but there needs to be a way to test. Or 
  is it just status 200? There needs to be a way to test.
There needs to be a way for an implementation to be tested
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We are saying the same. But we have made a 
  mistake, focusing too much on what is actually interoperability. 
  It should be VC data model compliant
The most valuable thign we can do is revisit our interop, focus 
  on /presentations
Patrick St-Louis:  But how can that be done without /issue and 
  /verify. And revocation
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It would be Neoflow issues a credential with 
  their internal endpoints. Then call Mesur.
It then submits to every other implementer.
So, if Mavennet submits a SL VC, rejected by Transmute. Either 
  side failed. In any case, not interoperable
Patrick St-Louis:  That makes sense. But how can only 
  /presentations do this?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  You have a set of valid and invalid 
  credentials. It is reflective of actual implementator's 
  capabilities
Patrick St-Louis:  How?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  With the triggers we have running
Patrick St-Louis:  How will it do that?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We have valid and invalid credentials on the 
  repo.
The majority will show who is not passing
"Give me a valid implementation, I will submit it to Org A"
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  They can be static VCs
Patrick St-Louis:  That is a good place to start. It is 
  considerably different
It means removing the traceability API
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That is the statement we are making. What I 
  submit to you is what matters
Nis Jespersen :  Yes, keep VC API and interop focused on what 
  they are made for
Instead of synching them
Patrick St-Louis:  This would test the core of what is to be 
  tested
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We need to think how to test every MUST 
  statement
Patrick St-Louis:  Still with postman?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes
Nis Jespersen :  Yes
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It should be much simpler, docs plus 
  implementation
Patrick St-Louis:  Here is our credential samples
Patrick St-Louis:  You still environment variables
Securing mechanisms? sending a JWT. How does the credential 
  format change the test?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Let's raise an issue and have the discussion 
  there.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Patrick St-Louis:  Satisfied with the discussion
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/628
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/630
Patrick St-Louis:  The schema should still be changed. Need to 
  look into where they are cahnged
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/635
Chris Abernethy:  We have always done earliest first.
Ted Thibodeau:  I debate that, we have had PRs with substantial 
  changes running multiple meetings
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/635
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We have not used DIDAuth for a long time
Nis Jespersen :  Yes, should have been gone long ago
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/632
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Adding VC DM to the references. Using respec 
  magic
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/634
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  The same, but for DID core
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/633
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Again the same, for trace vocab
Nis Jespersen :  D'oh, deleted the wrong part.
Nis Jespersen :  This was a dupe with my huge PR, that got taken 
  out
Patrick St-Louis:  This is the same as last time, three vendors 
  bringing in requirements
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That is why it got split up, take it on its 
  own
Patrick St-Louis:  As much as I like to believe that, I highly 
  doubt that this came on its own. Discussions made out of band.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It only says switch to 256
We could make it both, what we want to support
Objections?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/638
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/629
Changes the path to the collection
Patrick St-Louis:  This is where the ext/int endpoints was 
  discussed
I would still like this to be merged in
Still running tests
Supporting 2020 which is still the spec
Do anyone still run 2020?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I htink so, but they need to be on the calls 
  to object
Objections to merging 629?
No, merging
Noting we are moving away from this kind of testing
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/638
As dicussed
Patrick St-Louis:  Safely remove the tests
Propose closing issue 482
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/482
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It is bitstring now, not status list
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/942
Nis Jespersen :  The terms are a little odd. But the PR is a step 
  towards the better
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Let's not make perfect the enemy of good
Merging
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/939
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/939
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/930
Patrick St-Louis:  Let me explain where I am coming from with 
  these credentials. We might invest into UNTP spec rahter than 
  trace vocab
BCGov have their own VCs using AnonCreds
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/929
The mines permit will be similar to petro/natural gas, looking at 
  that
Patrick St-Louis:  I added examples
With AnonCreds snakecase is used
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/929
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Where is the credential which this is based 
  on
Patrick St-Louis:  This represents permit to mine at a given 
  location
Issued the anoncred it is based on that DID
Publish the same public key through the DID, signing
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We are over time
We would want to do LD the same way we do it on trace
Patrick St-Louis:  I do have a version of that
