[2024-04-02T17:30:08.210Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2024-04-02T17:30:48.287Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2024-04-02T17:31:18.510Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-04-02T17:31:34.621Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	that works so much better when I click the right meeting title...
[2024-04-02T17:32:35.848Z]	<nis>	present+
[2024-04-02T17:34:14.770Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2024-04-02T17:34:27.685Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/636
[2024-04-02T17:34:49.520Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q+
[2024-04-02T17:35:31.885Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-04-02T17:35:31.886Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-04-02T17:35:41.711Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Announcement page you know they provide the link and the time of the meeting so I I don't know where else that sort of information is available.
[2024-04-02T17:36:14.621Z]	<nis>	scribe+
[2024-04-02T17:36:28.934Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-04-02T17:36:28.934Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-04-02T17:36:43.931Z]	<nis>	scribe+
[2024-04-02T17:36:53.746Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/636
[2024-04-02T17:37:16.420Z]	<nis>	Chris: might not be able to make it, but Brent will take over anyway. Starting next week
[2024-04-02T17:37:39.294Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: objections to the Thursday simeslot?
[2024-04-02T17:38:16.848Z]	<nis>	Next meeting is on Thursday April 11th
[2024-04-02T17:40:35.286Z]	<nis>	Patrick: my general impression of implementing this specification. There is a conversation to be had regarding interoperaability. What does it mean to be an implementer? What is the purpose of being an implementer? To be addressed?
[2024-04-02T17:40:56.085Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: to an extend this will be addressed by PRs
[2024-04-02T17:42:02.573Z]	<nis>	Patrick: I pass 99% but am non conformant. Frustrating. Requirements changes. There is no way for me to comply. BC Gov is a government interested in complying. Raised concerns for me.
[2024-04-02T17:42:32.136Z]	<nis>	Push back on PR. So, what does it mean to be an implementer of interop?
[2024-04-02T17:44:04.050Z]	<nis>	Nis: we have been reflecting on having overstepped what is actually interoperability
[2024-04-02T17:44:39.824Z]	<nis>	Patrick: Yes, but there needs to be a way to test. Or is it just status 200? There needs to be a way to test.
[2024-04-02T17:45:00.132Z]	<Mahmoud>	q+
[2024-04-02T17:45:08.261Z]	<nis>	There needs to be a way for an implementation to be tested
[2024-04-02T17:45:13.839Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q-
[2024-04-02T17:45:19.076Z]	<Mahmoud>	q-
[2024-04-02T17:46:03.363Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: We are saying the same. But we have made a mistake, focusing too much on what is actually interoperability. It should be VC data model compliant
[2024-04-02T17:46:29.486Z]	<nis>	The most valuable thign we can do is revisit our interop, focus on /presentations
[2024-04-02T17:47:05.797Z]	<nis>	Patrick: but how can that be done without /issue and /verify. And revocation
[2024-04-02T17:47:50.697Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: it would be Neoflow issues a credential with their internal endpoints. Then call Mesur.
[2024-04-02T17:48:20.100Z]	<nis>	It then submits to every other implementer.
[2024-04-02T17:48:52.813Z]	<nis>	So, if Mavennet submits a SL VC, rejected by Transmute. Either side failed. In any case, not interoperable
[2024-04-02T17:49:39.042Z]	<nis>	Patrick: That makes sense. But how can only /presentations do this?
[2024-04-02T17:50:53.486Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: You have a set of valid and invalid credentials. It is reflective of actual implementator's capabilities
[2024-04-02T17:50:58.090Z]	<nis>	Patrick: How?
[2024-04-02T17:51:30.744Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: With the triggers we have running
[2024-04-02T17:51:58.704Z]	<nis>	Patrick: How will it do that?
[2024-04-02T17:52:17.338Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we have valid and invalid credentials on the repo.
[2024-04-02T17:53:19.143Z]	<nis>	The majority will show who is not passing
[2024-04-02T17:53:50.217Z]	<nis>	"Give me a valid implementation, I will submit it to Org A"
[2024-04-02T17:54:10.382Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: they can be static VCs
[2024-04-02T17:54:27.521Z]	<nis>	Patrick: that is a good place to start. It is considerably different
[2024-04-02T17:54:41.852Z]	<nis>	It means removing the traceability API
[2024-04-02T17:55:05.027Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: that is the statement we are making. What I submit to you is what matters
[2024-04-02T17:55:59.005Z]	<nis>	Nis: yes, keep VC API and interop focused on what they are made for
[2024-04-02T17:56:06.632Z]	<nis>	Instead of synching them
[2024-04-02T17:56:18.433Z]	<nis>	Patrick: this would test the core of what is to be tested
[2024-04-02T17:56:46.818Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we need to think how to test every MUST statement
[2024-04-02T17:57:00.972Z]	<nis>	Patrick: still with postman?
[2024-04-02T17:57:05.198Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yes
[2024-04-02T17:57:07.829Z]	<nis>	Nis: yes
[2024-04-02T17:57:26.980Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: it should be much simpler, docs plus implementation
[2024-04-02T17:57:46.940Z]	<nis>	Patrick: Here is our credential samples
[2024-04-02T17:58:00.641Z]	<nis>	Patrick: You still environment variables
[2024-04-02T17:58:36.556Z]	<nis>	Securing mechanisms? sending a JWT. How does the credential format change the test?
[2024-04-02T17:58:48.500Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: let's raise an issue and have the discussion there.
[2024-04-02T17:59:17.678Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2024-04-02T17:59:22.839Z]	<nis>	Patrick: satisfied with the discussion
[2024-04-02T17:59:37.831Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/628
[2024-04-02T18:01:34.220Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/630
[2024-04-02T18:02:56.794Z]	<nis>	Patrick: the schema should still be changed. Need to look into where they are cahnged
[2024-04-02T18:03:00.188Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/635
[2024-04-02T18:04:34.616Z]	<nis>	Chris: we have always done earliest first.
[2024-04-02T18:05:15.403Z]	<nis>	Ted: I debate that, we have had PRs with substantial changes running multiple meetings
[2024-04-02T18:05:17.728Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/635
[2024-04-02T18:05:45.553Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we have not used DIDAuth for a long time
[2024-04-02T18:06:05.851Z]	<nis>	Nis: yes, should have been gone long ago
[2024-04-02T18:07:04.528Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/632
[2024-04-02T18:07:47.222Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: adding VC DM to the references. Using respec magic
[2024-04-02T18:08:13.658Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/634
[2024-04-02T18:08:32.519Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: the same, but for DID core
[2024-04-02T18:09:05.149Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/633
[2024-04-02T18:09:26.845Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: again the same, for trace vocab
[2024-04-02T18:11:35.182Z]	<nis>	Nis: d'oh, deleted the wrong part.
[2024-04-02T18:12:25.026Z]	<nis>	Nis: this was a dupe with my huge PR, that got taken out
[2024-04-02T18:12:55.079Z]	<nis>	Patrick: this is the same as last time, three vendors bringing in requirements
[2024-04-02T18:13:09.348Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: that is why it got split up, take it on its own
[2024-04-02T18:13:43.814Z]	<nis>	Patrick: as much as I like to believe that, I highly doubt that this came on its own. Discussions made out of band.
[2024-04-02T18:14:33.182Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: it only says switch to 256
[2024-04-02T18:14:44.500Z]	<nis>	We could make it both, what we want to support
[2024-04-02T18:15:02.292Z]	<nis>	Objections?
[2024-04-02T18:15:06.138Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/638
[2024-04-02T18:15:23.705Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/629
[2024-04-02T18:16:00.049Z]	<nis>	Changes the path to the collection
[2024-04-02T18:16:12.474Z]	<nis>	Patrick: this is where the ext/int endpoints was discussed
[2024-04-02T18:16:25.564Z]	<nis>	I would still like this to be merged in
[2024-04-02T18:16:39.226Z]	<nis>	Still running tests
[2024-04-02T18:17:00.083Z]	<nis>	Supporting 2020 which is still the spec
[2024-04-02T18:17:07.301Z]	<nis>	Do anyone still run 2020?
[2024-04-02T18:17:19.389Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I htink so, but they need to be on the calls to object
[2024-04-02T18:17:40.163Z]	<nis>	Objections to merging 629?
[2024-04-02T18:17:43.325Z]	<nis>	No, merging
[2024-04-02T18:17:59.455Z]	<nis>	Noting we are moving away from this kind of testing
[2024-04-02T18:17:59.933Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/638
[2024-04-02T18:18:11.834Z]	<nis>	As dicussed
[2024-04-02T18:18:54.402Z]	<nis>	Patrick: safely remove the tests
[2024-04-02T18:19:16.112Z]	<nis>	Propose closing issue 482
[2024-04-02T18:19:40.078Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/482
[2024-04-02T18:20:28.791Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: it is bitstring now, not status list
[2024-04-02T18:21:29.327Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2024-04-02T18:22:50.064Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/942
[2024-04-02T18:23:16.276Z]	<nis>	Nis: the terms are a little odd. But the PR is a step towards the better
[2024-04-02T18:23:29.463Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: let's not make perfect the enemy of good
[2024-04-02T18:23:31.805Z]	<nis>	Merging
[2024-04-02T18:23:43.958Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/939
[2024-04-02T18:23:50.658Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/939
[2024-04-02T18:25:11.272Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/930
[2024-04-02T18:26:14.994Z]	<nis>	Patrick: let me explain where I am coming from with these credentials. We might invest into UNTP spec rahter than trace vocab
[2024-04-02T18:26:42.518Z]	<nis>	BCGov have their own VCs using AnonCreds
[2024-04-02T18:27:02.639Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/929
[2024-04-02T18:27:14.429Z]	<nis>	The mines permit will be similar to petro/natural gas, looking at that
[2024-04-02T18:27:44.616Z]	<nis>	Patrick: I added examples
[2024-04-02T18:28:08.984Z]	<nis>	With AnonCreds snakecase is used
[2024-04-02T18:28:32.896Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/929
[2024-04-02T18:30:30.963Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: where is the credential which this is based on
[2024-04-02T18:30:53.817Z]	<nis>	Patrick: this represents permit to mine at a given location
[2024-04-02T18:31:01.484Z]	<nis>	Issued the anoncred it is based on that DID
[2024-04-02T18:31:23.243Z]	<nis>	Publish the same public key through the DID, signing
[2024-04-02T18:31:44.443Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we are over time
[2024-04-02T18:32:13.851Z]	<nis>	We would want to do LD the same way we do it on trace
[2024-04-02T18:32:29.650Z]	<nis>	Patrick: I do have a version of that
[2024-04-02T18:59:17.733Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
