[2024-05-30T18:59:49.230Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2024-05-30T19:00:02.898Z]	<nis>	present+
[2024-05-30T19:00:37.548Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2024-05-30T19:00:58.085Z]	<brentz>	present+
[2024-05-30T19:03:10.257Z]	<nis>	scribe+
[2024-05-30T19:03:13.183Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-05-30T19:03:13.184Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-05-30T19:03:25.197Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: We're only 3 people yeah let's try it it's been a while and only 3 people.
[2024-05-30T19:03:31.744Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Okay uh traceability call Mae 30th.
[2024-05-30T19:03:35.701Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Everybody here has signed the ccg contribute argument we're good.
[2024-05-30T19:03:44.717Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Kick off on reviewing PRS but before we do that does anybody have anything they want to bring up.
[2024-05-30T19:03:47.224Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Any issues topics.
[2024-05-30T19:04:03.271Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Uh well I can just share the so we you know we submitted the BCG implementation lately and everyone's really really happy with the results uh I believe that the project owner had a meeting with.
[2024-05-30T19:04:03.995Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  uh is it.
[2024-05-30T19:04:26.260Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: DHS and they were very happy to see this so we'll keep working on you know various demo and proof of concept uh and related to that so we are uh happy with closing the conformance portion of the test I know I had asked to keep it open and we're pretty happy with the state it is now.
[2024-05-30T19:04:27.139Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/656
[2024-05-30T19:04:34.277Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Oh awesome so that is PR 656 and yeah we've had a conversation with nil since and he was very happy with.
[2024-05-30T19:04:37.274Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Everything going on so that is very positive.
[2024-05-30T19:04:48.836Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: So I guess that takes us straight into PR 656 the only thing that's preventing it is that it has conflicts.
[2024-05-30T19:04:52.290Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: And interpret yaml.
[2024-05-30T19:04:56.909Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: What is it.
[2024-05-30T19:05:00.636Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Just removing some some things.
[2024-05-30T19:05:03.757Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: It is removing files I just don't know why it's conflicting and.
[2024-05-30T19:05:06.780Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: GitHub is not happy.
[2024-05-30T19:05:12.265Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Uh can I ask you to review this this.
[2024-05-30T19:05:18.389Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Thank you but green light emerge whatever um.
[2024-05-30T19:05:20.350Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I will yes.
[2024-05-30T19:05:27.862Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Please merge this when conflicts have been resolved.
[2024-05-30T19:05:34.884Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Thank you so much cool that's the only interesting drop 1 we have.
[2024-05-30T19:05:37.995Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: On the vocab side.
[2024-05-30T19:05:45.483Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: We have 2 PRS 1 is the draft PR by Patrick which was about.
[2024-05-30T19:05:47.691Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/930
[2024-05-30T19:05:48.985Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: The natural gas and petroleum title.
[2024-05-30T19:05:58.031Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Last we talked about this Patrick I believe you said you're had just gotten access to actual to the actual system and you're trying to get.
[2024-05-30T19:06:36.818Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah so the I had access turns out there's more access needed of course the 1 access is never enough so I'm uh running against the trying to get a VPN access so I can uh yeah the directly get access to the database so they've set up some they call it database views for us with the information that we need uh so I'll still have to wait a little bit before I can uh put a meaningful update to that PR but it's still on top of my my priority for as soon as I get more thing I will update it.
[2024-05-30T19:06:43.561Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Super excited to have this PRN because I know there's a lot of.
[2024-05-30T19:06:53.087Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Movement on this I know there's a lot of people who are interested on our end to have this in so we can use it for a number of things so.
[2024-05-30T19:06:59.552Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Yeah looking forward to have this Merchant uh anything else on this here.
[2024-05-30T19:07:13.134Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Uh no no not nothing much I mean like I I've sent you you know the the the credential I've sent you that you tried like it's going to be a good example of the direction it's going to go towards uh.
[2024-05-30T19:07:22.407Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: We we are still working on it and uh not nothing significant but it's very much something we we are actively.
[2024-05-30T19:07:24.289Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/956
[2024-05-30T19:07:34.571Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: The last PR we have that is open right now is a huge PR that I opened PR number 956 it is.
[2024-05-30T19:07:38.540Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Not even a line it is 2 spaces.
[2024-05-30T19:07:38.862Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  that I need.
[2024-05-30T19:07:43.088Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: To add in to fix the title of a credential.
[2024-05-30T19:07:47.553Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Hopefully this is not a problematic PR for anyone.
[2024-05-30T19:07:51.060Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: And we can get it approved and merged in.
[2024-05-30T19:07:57.066Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I know Ted's approved it I would love it if I can get 1 more person.
[2024-05-30T19:08:01.064Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Just for the sake of form.
[2024-05-30T19:08:09.074Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: 956 956 yeah and rent approved it thank you so much Brent and go ahead and merge this in.
[2024-05-30T19:08:18.066Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: And that hits all the PRS we want to review some issues because I feel like it's been a bit.
[2024-05-30T19:08:27.577Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Um let's start with interrupts first because I know there's a couple that I know I want to talk about.
[2024-05-30T19:08:32.741Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Um well that's even better.
[2024-05-30T19:08:41.060Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2024-05-30T19:08:45.776Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Um starting by at least recently updated we have 10 issues that is so nice so let's go ahead and go through them uh that's a link to the issues.
[2024-05-30T19:08:56.376Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: The first 1 is relationship to the VC API this 1 was myself and Patrick and what we wanted to say is.
[2024-05-30T19:09:01.343Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: What is the relationship between us and the VC API.
[2024-05-30T19:09:13.348Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: This is what this API does if you want to do other stuff to figure out how to communicate within a trust boundary go talk to the VC API.
[2024-05-30T19:09:13.539Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  I believe.
[2024-05-30T19:09:18.341Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Patrick you wanted you wanted to be assigned on this.
[2024-05-30T19:09:18.626Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  you have any.
[2024-05-30T19:09:32.000Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah uh yeah you can assign me and I will uh start drafting the pr know I I haven't directly made but I will I will not put that on my on my list.
[2024-05-30T19:09:38.746Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: All right I'm going to go ahead and say Patrick to work on this soon and I'm going to call me on it.
[2024-05-30T19:09:42.224Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Cool uh that should cycle it in.
[2024-05-30T19:09:46.859Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
[2024-05-30T19:09:47.247Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Support for SD drop this is issue number 405.
[2024-05-30T19:09:49.237Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: This is the next 1 up.
[2024-05-30T19:09:59.313Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Last we left us off was we wanted to narrow the profile to.
[2024-05-30T19:10:05.764Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: There we only care about SD JS or just a plus dot section for the VC Jose Co.
[2024-05-30T19:10:11.245Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I think we all so niss and I both said plus JWT.
[2024-05-30T19:10:13.723Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I see Patrick you're on.
[2024-05-30T19:10:21.348Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Could you just uh for my understanding clarify the difference between SD jot and just plus jot.
[2024-05-30T19:10:40.135Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: So that okay okay.
[2024-05-30T19:10:48.133Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Sdj implies that you will be doing selective disclosure on your jwts it is its own full specification plus jot simply says you are sending me a jot that has it's just a jot right there's no selected exposure or anything it is the easiest 1 for anyone to implement because it's I mean realistically speaking if you want to implement it as the jot you need to be able to support jots right.
[2024-05-30T19:10:58.528Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Um and this is the lowest common denominator and I believe it makes a lot of sense to have this be the minimum level of support.
[2024-05-30T19:11:06.166Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Would it be referred to say that at a later time we could revisit and then add SD jot or.
[2024-05-30T19:11:10.028Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: We're always open to revisiting and adding more things it's just a matter of like I don't know.
[2024-05-30T19:11:10.219Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  how much.
[2024-05-30T19:11:21.554Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Construction as regards even have really and I don't know if anybody knows if there's anything new there but my gut feeling is until someone comes in with a concrete.
[2024-05-30T19:11:28.052Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Department saying hey I really want to support SD jobs and I think it is an important thing to do.
[2024-05-30T19:11:34.045Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I think we just support what we know we care about which is we know we care about jobs so I'll just do that.
[2024-05-30T19:11:36.319Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah I'm okay with that.
[2024-05-30T19:11:40.033Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Uh is anyone disagree with that.
[2024-05-30T19:11:44.608Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: All right so I was going to say resolved.
[2024-05-30T19:11:50.077Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: On call we will be supporting Plus.
[2024-05-30T19:11:59.022Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: And uh which 1 call.
[2024-05-30T19:12:09.053Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Call it will be supporting last year.
[2024-05-30T19:12:13.541Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Cool I'm going to comment on it and I'm going to give it a ready for PR label.
[2024-05-30T19:12:18.046Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: This this is assigned to AI.
[2024-05-30T19:12:29.121Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Don't know if 4 is still willing to work on these issues do you think he is so originally it was assigned to him because he was supposed to keep us up to date honesty job.
[2024-05-30T19:12:34.553Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Do you think it's uh realistic thing that he's going to be doing.
[2024-05-30T19:12:38.032Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Or should we send to someone else.
[2024-05-30T19:12:45.570Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Okay okay I will.
[2024-05-30T19:12:52.046Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Where your assigned to this.
[2024-05-30T19:12:58.201Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Yeah no worries.
[2024-05-30T19:13:19.203Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I mean he he did the merge conflict because he added the implementation right before that they didn't have.
[2024-05-30T19:13:35.441Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah yeah yeah I blame the Canadians.
[2024-05-30T19:13:43.701Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: All right um.
[2024-05-30T19:13:51.719Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: The ask for this issue is to create.
[2024-05-30T19:14:07.821Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: To update language in the spec to say we will be targeting the plus G WT profile section of GDC Jose Jose.
[2024-05-30T19:14:13.298Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I have been to our full.
[2024-05-30T19:14:15.242Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Get back to us.
[2024-05-30T19:14:15.504Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  next 1.
[2024-05-30T19:14:21.962Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/582
[2024-05-30T19:14:33.271Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Genuinely hate this issue like from the bottom of my heart but whatever uh 582 is an issue that basically says hey can we add a column to the provider summary so we get an overall.
[2024-05-30T19:14:40.749Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Coverage and then 2 can we update and use product offering instead of company names.
[2024-05-30T19:14:47.744Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: We said this is not a high priority issue and then.
[2024-05-30T19:14:52.738Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I linked with the summary is this is assigned to me.
[2024-05-30T19:14:58.874Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Still genuinely don't think this is a high priority issue and I wanted to focus on other things.
[2024-05-30T19:15:08.774Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: It's not labeled 1.0 or anything like that I don't want to close it I think it's important because I I I think it makes like.
[2024-05-30T19:15:16.740Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I would like an overall column I would also like the product offerings to be included.
[2024-05-30T19:15:28.253Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I think that it doesn't make sense to do now because we're going to be removing a lot of these columns when we switch the way we're doing the tests right.
[2024-05-30T19:15:30.312Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: The tests are going to be interrupt based.
[2024-05-30T19:15:37.800Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Actually now that I think about it when the test switch on based this doesn't even make sense right.
[2024-05-30T19:15:46.791Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah should it be more because when we'll do the new test I think there'll be a bit of a redesign of what summaries mean and what they look like.
[2024-05-30T19:15:56.820Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Yeah I think when we do the new test this table goes away and we retain the other tables so for those of you who.
[2024-05-30T19:15:58.301Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
[2024-05-30T19:16:01.754Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I don't know if you have the interrupt view Page open but I just like that.
[2024-05-30T19:16:05.277Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Um the provider summary table that 1's going to stay.
[2024-05-30T19:16:14.776Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I think that 1's important but the provider and test summary table that 1 is going to go away because we're only going to have a single.
[2024-05-30T19:16:18.759Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Test type which is slash presentations right.
[2024-05-30T19:16:23.894Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: So my gut feeling is.
[2024-05-30T19:16:27.873Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: We've successfully made this issue obscure.
[2024-05-30T19:16:31.120Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: And we'll have to deal with.
[2024-05-30T19:16:31.721Z]	<Transcriber>	brentz: So that means we should close it right.
[2024-05-30T19:16:33.579Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Yeah I think so.
[2024-05-30T19:16:38.054Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Yeah success so.
[2024-05-30T19:16:47.671Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: We are moving to the new fixtures test framework we will no longer need this.
[2024-05-30T19:16:51.124Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: You can probably refer a issue.
[2024-05-30T19:16:57.159Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Probably refer issue is 659 is the issue about the new test so maybe just.
[2024-05-30T19:17:03.634Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Refer that part of 659 will cover what reporting will look like.
[2024-05-30T19:17:08.742Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Should also modify reporting here.
[2024-05-30T19:17:12.163Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: New fixtures Plus.
[2024-05-30T19:17:18.706Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Cool closing we have a 9 issues left.
[2024-05-30T19:17:25.408Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/636
[2024-05-30T19:17:31.177Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: We're about to have a because I feel like this 1 has been done which is issue number 636 and based on its title we need to reschedule the meeting Cadence.
[2024-05-30T19:17:41.199Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I don't know if that calendar has us right so going to Ted's thing.
[2024-05-30T19:17:45.192Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: There is a Google Calendar.
[2024-05-30T19:17:50.683Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: That has us on a Tuesday slot so that has not been updated.
[2024-05-30T19:17:57.663Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Paying the CCU chairs.
[2024-05-30T19:18:05.679Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: They haven't updated that calendar does it 62 calendar have.
[2024-05-30T19:18:09.159Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Us on it.
[2024-05-30T19:18:15.642Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: I mean even the VC API work item call is not at the right time on that calendar.
[2024-05-30T19:18:22.174Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Yeah that so the Google 1 is completely outdated the ccg 1 is does not include us.
[2024-05-30T19:18:28.040Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/credentials/calendar/
[2024-05-30T19:18:31.206Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: So this is the ccg 1 I'm just going to place it in the chat just to make sure that we're on the same page and I really wish this 1.
[2024-05-30T19:18:36.177Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Is the 1 that is updated but this 1 does not have us at all.
[2024-05-30T19:18:44.695Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Really good detail for the weekly ccg calls so someone clearly has access to it.
[2024-05-30T19:18:46.675Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Can update it.
[2024-05-30T19:18:49.710Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I just wish they would add us to it.
[2024-05-30T19:18:55.694Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Does anybody know.
[2024-05-30T19:19:01.180Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Any better way to contact the chairs.
[2024-05-30T19:19:03.120Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2024-05-30T19:19:12.211Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Or do you suggest we just ping them again on this I don't want to close this issue until they actually fix it it's not a heavy item issue but it is nice right.
[2024-05-30T19:19:15.558Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah it's never a good to have.
[2024-05-30T19:19:18.061Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: With things like your own.
[2024-05-30T19:19:22.188Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: W3c ccg calendar.
[2024-05-30T19:19:26.666Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Our time slots.
[2024-05-30T19:19:29.142Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: The uh sorry Thursday.
[2024-05-30T19:19:31.676Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: 3 p.m. yesterday.
[2024-05-30T19:19:40.708Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Uh I guess we're technically pending close but we're not I'm going to remove that pending clothes label because we have to wait for them to do something right.
[2024-05-30T19:19:49.318Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/656
[2024-05-30T19:19:49.696Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Okay next up add additional code generation languages which is yes.
[2024-05-30T19:19:59.966Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I love fixing all right so back to PR 656.
[2024-05-30T19:20:00.368Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/656
[2024-05-30T19:20:02.932Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Let me put it back in the chat.
[2024-05-30T19:20:07.491Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: There are no merge conflicts.
[2024-05-30T19:20:38.568Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Uh is this a I thought this was just deleting.
[2024-05-30T19:20:49.767Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I don't think there's any updates that I'm just reviewing the files right now I don't think there's any updates I think it's just deletion unless I'm missing something.
[2024-05-30T19:21:02.235Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Regardless I think this is great we've already gotten all the approvals in I'm going to go ahead and merge this in.
[2024-05-30T19:21:04.733Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Actually this will.
[2024-05-30T19:21:10.742Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: You know get us more closer and closer to the better test as well.
[2024-05-30T19:21:14.738Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Was there an issue associated with it.
[2024-05-30T19:21:22.241Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Did that close correctly it did excellent.
[2024-05-30T19:21:25.247Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Sorry you had something to talk about why.
[2024-05-30T19:21:54.269Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: There's an issue there is an issue for the new interrupt test and I think we need to talk about it in that issue and I think we will add those and I think that's issue number 659 and we'll get to it in a little bit awesome uh 645.
[2024-05-30T19:21:54.552Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  which is.
[2024-05-30T19:21:55.629Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/645
[2024-05-30T19:21:58.244Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Next up on our list of issues.
[2024-05-30T19:22:08.753Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Which is about code generation languages I was saying hey we should just remove this whole thing.
[2024-05-30T19:22:16.768Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I believe you disagreed with me at the time but I don't remember.
[2024-05-30T19:22:38.328Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I I I think this is just a thing that like we don't really need and like if someone knows how to do code then from open API spec they can do it if they don't know.
[2024-05-30T19:22:42.854Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: That's really not relevant to us all we really need to care about is.
[2024-05-30T19:22:48.878Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Do we have an open API spec is it clean is it running does it work for people.
[2024-05-30T19:22:53.480Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: How they use it I think you know is a little bit out of scope.
[2024-05-30T19:22:59.153Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: But um Okay so.
[2024-05-30T19:23:15.523Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: You mean it just adds sections to this back.
[2024-05-30T19:23:25.041Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Or or do you think it's it adds so okay let me let me reframe that do you think it makes it better or do you think it's 1 of those things that like it reads better.
[2024-05-30T19:23:39.903Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Okay so um.
[2024-05-30T19:23:46.920Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Can I say we resolved to just remove section 9.1.
[2024-05-30T19:23:49.435Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: That 1 from the spec.
[2024-05-30T19:23:54.943Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: To take on this task.
[2024-05-30T19:23:59.919Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Removing a section this should be very complicated just.
[2024-05-30T19:24:00.221Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  delete 5 lines.
[2024-05-30T19:24:04.800Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Sorry which issue are we talking about.
[2024-05-30T19:24:07.521Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: This is issue number 645.
[2024-05-30T19:24:13.258Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Where it says add or remove.
[2024-05-30T19:24:17.945Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Know and that's why and but we just resolved to just remove this the whole section.
[2024-05-30T19:24:19.276Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Okay I can.
[2024-05-30T19:24:24.758Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah I mean if it's just removing I'm sure can manage.
[2024-05-30T19:24:32.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Uh I can't assign you to this issue because you haven't done anything with it can you assign yourself to this issue.
[2024-05-30T19:24:39.874Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Don't have the permission do you want me to just comment.
[2024-05-30T19:24:43.158Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Can you just write a comment yeah just write in happy to take it or something like that and then.
[2024-05-30T19:24:59.654Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I think it does are set to refresh the page maybe GitHub is a very fun sometimes yeah it works now.
[2024-05-30T19:25:02.182Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Perfect thank you so much.
[2024-05-30T19:25:11.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Uh so that is add additional code generation next up PR 653 hasn't been.
[2024-05-30T19:25:13.471Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/655
[2024-05-30T19:25:16.170Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I don't know what this is.
[2024-05-30T19:25:32.015Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Excellent closing my favorite.
[2024-05-30T19:25:37.054Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: This 1 was.
[2024-05-30T19:25:41.052Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: The next 1 is update Section 8.
[2024-05-30T19:25:44.025Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/657
[2024-05-30T19:25:45.073Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Which is issue number.
[2024-05-30T19:26:04.197Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Section 8 should be updated with our actual upper and drop testing Discovery through did web there's a question mark there but you should draw out to avoid having to call Ishu ooth client credentials authentication successful call to presentations.
[2024-05-30T19:26:13.711Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: So Ted says sections change please just refer to them by title that might make it easier for us in the future which I think is a very fair ask.
[2024-05-30T19:26:20.200Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Before we go there Section 8 is all about interoperability testing right.
[2024-05-30T19:26:29.758Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Someone had their hand up and I can't.
[2024-05-30T19:26:33.436Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Uh it's me so I'm just so when we say we want to pre-issue jot uh.
[2024-05-30T19:26:40.290Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Can we clarify that we will present them as an enveloped verifiable credential.
[2024-05-30T19:26:49.699Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Let me so 1 second this I feel like 657659.
[2024-05-30T19:26:49.954Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  can we talk.
[2024-05-30T19:26:53.217Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: About them in the same conversation because I think they're kind of the same thing.
[2024-05-30T19:26:54.572Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/659
[2024-05-30T19:26:56.204Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: So let me just link that as well.
[2024-05-30T19:27:05.741Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: 659 is we should actually talk about what we want our tests to look like right what we want to do in our tests and.
[2024-05-30T19:27:10.801Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: We need to update their approach.
[2024-05-30T19:27:21.812Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: So the first thing I want to say is Discovery through the web is a thing that's been kind of brought up incidentally I think there's another issue on it right.
[2024-05-30T19:27:28.305Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/660
[2024-05-30T19:27:31.284Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: It's 660 that you've brought up nests right which is do we even need this whole Discovery service.
[2024-05-30T19:27:34.286Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Endpoint right at all.
[2024-05-30T19:27:38.805Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I agree with you and I I'm going a step further and saying.
[2024-05-30T19:27:43.310Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I don't think we need that whole did resolution endpoint in the first place.
[2024-05-30T19:27:51.806Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: And so to me so going back to 657 I think the first bullet point doesn't need to happen.
[2024-05-30T19:28:04.660Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Um I mean I I think there's a something to be said that there should be a test to make sure that the did is resolvable you know that's like uh as simple and trivial as it sounds.
[2024-05-30T19:28:04.999Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  you know.
[2024-05-30T19:28:08.153Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Something to test and when the organization.
[2024-05-30T19:28:13.109Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: The issuers did have a credential you know or.
[2024-05-30T19:28:34.098Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Well well the the the way we're doing the testing is there's like so I guess the way we're proposing and testing is let's say there's 10 pictures fixtures 1 issued by and assuming we're 10 organizations 1 issued by each organization right and then 1 version of that with an invalid and 1 version of that with a valid credential right.
[2024-05-30T19:28:37.403Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah invalid you mean like revolt.
[2024-05-30T19:28:47.647Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: The signature or or revoked or like with each individual test case that we're going to be doing right like signature fails or revoked or whatever or and 1 of them could be the did web is just.
[2024-05-30T19:29:02.651Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Wrong right and just can't resolve to anything and so to me that is a specific test case for the slash presentations endpoint that doesn't need to be a its own endpoint so today we have.
[2024-05-30T19:29:05.252Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Do you remember the name of the Empire Tickets.
[2024-05-30T19:29:08.962Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: No yeah yeah no you're right I was thinking more have a.
[2024-05-30T19:29:18.230Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: You know like a test client that is is in itself did web resolver that would you know like test um.
[2024-05-30T19:29:19.265Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: But I feel like that doesn't do anything for us right.
[2024-05-30T19:29:22.165Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah yeah that's a good point.
[2024-05-30T19:29:27.942Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Because I don't so so and I think this is a thing that we're shifting in our thinking even when we first started talking about modifying our.
[2024-05-30T19:29:45.002Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Tests was I don't really care how you do it as long as you're getting to the correct answer every single time in all of these test cases it works right like if you just have a human being getting the API request and responding that's that's.
[2024-05-30T19:29:50.860Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah it's a like mechanical Park isn't that the.
[2024-05-30T19:29:54.825Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Do it right um yeah yeah exactly so if you're doing that that's and it works that's good for you but.
[2024-05-30T19:30:11.368Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: We should aim for is saying this presentation's endpoint that we really care about is the most robust thing possible against all of the requirements in this packet and so the the other endpoints seem like a distraction.
[2024-05-30T19:30:19.157Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I guess my proposal is we don't need the get identifier slash did endpoint.
[2024-05-30T19:30:27.840Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: My like I I read this before in my only concern with this is that this endpoint it's only expected to return 200 or.
[2024-05-30T19:30:33.455Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Something else so.
[2024-05-30T19:30:48.180Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Yeah no no but that's because the the the tests aren't there yet right like the the presentation's endpoints needs to actually have tests right and these tests need to include all of the musts in the spec and the statement that I'm making is every single must in our spec can be satisfied via the 1 end point which is slash presentations.
[2024-05-30T19:31:01.447Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Yes what uh.
[2024-05-30T19:31:01.575Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Right so we so what what what we are saying here that we would do more extensive testing on that endpoint and expect that endpoint to return different method like error messages to okay.
[2024-05-30T19:31:01.707Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  that's a good question.
[2024-05-30T19:31:07.905Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I don't want to do different error messages I want to do it should error out but.
[2024-05-30T19:31:10.904Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Not but I don't like.
[2024-05-30T19:31:32.446Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Error codes is a valid thing to check at 4 but a specific error message I don't think is a valid thing to check for right so if I write in my error message um I don't like this credential it's ugly which is my code for the signature doesn't validate that's fine even though it's a horrible way to send a message but like I should be allowed to do it right.
[2024-05-30T19:31:34.885Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I I think.
[2024-05-30T19:31:38.909Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Error codes of like 400 401.
[2024-05-30T19:31:44.896Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Fine like uh HP error codes I mean rather than individual error.
[2024-05-30T19:31:51.405Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Cuz we've had them in the past right sorry uh just to give you a little bit more background.
[2024-05-30T19:31:53.391Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Had them in the past.
[2024-05-30T19:31:55.689Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: It ends up.
[2024-05-30T19:32:00.178Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Making things like very um.
[2024-05-30T19:32:05.199Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: So I don't I don't know what the word is but like stuck in the same.
[2024-05-30T19:32:14.064Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah rigid and like not natural grade yeah like I I for sure uh yeah for sure I understand this um.
[2024-05-30T19:32:14.427Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  yeah I think.
[2024-05-30T19:32:17.057Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Here error code is a good thing.
[2024-05-30T19:32:23.137Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: To start like an invalid you know like 400 or 422.
[2024-05-30T19:32:48.984Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Well yeah like that so that's what that's the issue I have like that endpoint is not a verification endpoint but we need from the test to know if the solution was able to verify the credential or not so it's like a it's a bit of an issue.
[2024-05-30T19:32:54.654Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: But no but it should return that the so if I submit.
[2024-05-30T19:33:02.611Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Okay so so the statement that you're saying is if I submit a presentation with credentials that are.
[2024-05-30T19:33:05.097Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: But what if I yeah you know what what if I bring my application and I just regardless of what you send.
[2024-05-30T19:33:11.060Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: That should be a mistake it should error out.
[2024-05-30T19:33:20.130Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Right so then we are expecting that end point to do some amount of verification and returned an error.
[2024-05-30T19:33:23.838Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Yes I just don't want to specify what the error is.
[2024-05-30T19:33:37.170Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah so then this is another question actually so I have on the vapi like I have a thing assigned to me about errors and when you think about verification right so if you receive a credential.
[2024-05-30T19:33:46.804Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Let's forget the presentation important just talk like conceptually let's say to verify endpoint if I receive a credential I verify it and the proof.
[2024-05-30T19:34:06.246Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Like technically I've verified the credential but I'm just returning that the proof fails so in that case am I like what kind of error message am I returning because it's not like a protocol based error handling right it's like more of a.
[2024-05-30T19:34:12.664Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: So you're saying I mean I think that's a bad request because you're sending me something that's garbage data like yes it's but it's garbage data not for the traditional reason of.
[2024-05-30T19:34:22.747Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: It's the wrong like thing but it's garbage data because it's just the data itself is garbage you know what I mean like if it can't if I can't verify signature on it.
[2024-05-30T19:34:27.109Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Treat that as garbage that's.
[2024-05-30T19:34:33.607Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: And then what about if it's revoked you know like if there's a revoked credential is it the same thing like I would return a 400.
[2024-05-30T19:34:39.994Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I think you would return to 400 I think what the statement that I am making and I don't know if everybody else agrees on this is.
[2024-05-30T19:34:47.995Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Should in all error cases that are bad requests where you send me some garbage data for whatever reason.
[2024-05-30T19:35:17.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I should return a 400 now if it's an unauthorized or something like that I should still return a 401 Etc but in in these cases where I've passed authentication I've gone to the point where you have received the presentation the presentation is not formatted correctly either because it's missing for example a presentation ID or you're sending me a credential that doesn't have a credential ID or anything like that that are requirements in our spec I should give you a 400 bad request can't do this right.
[2024-05-30T19:35:26.182Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: And and I don't know how everybody else feels about this I want to get I guess the feel.
[2024-05-30T19:35:29.139Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Have mixed feelings like uh.
[2024-05-30T19:35:36.683Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: So I think what we could do so that if you look at the RFC 9457 which is about.
[2024-05-30T19:35:44.186Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: You know API errors they distinguish between like a type a title a status a detail and an instance.
[2024-05-30T19:35:52.158Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Maybe there's no value in you know having going through the detail but I think.
[2024-05-30T19:36:50.491Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Because here since we're Miss we're sort of mixing protocol based error and other like more spec based error like we should have different types at least to distinguish between these 2 things like if both a credential that's like a a bad input that's missing a field or something could return a 400 and and a credential that's revoke could return also a 400 like there should be at least a differentiation in the type you know we could have like Define like within the spec we Define like type like proof you know or status or data format and that would at least get give a little bit more meaningful information to the test to understand what's going on because if just returning 400 everywhere like not too sure that it's it was it handled the right for the right reason and I don't know I.
[2024-05-30T19:36:53.162Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: I'd be curious what other people think maybe.
[2024-05-30T19:36:57.702Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: No Sprint muscle I mean put their.
[2024-05-30T19:37:11.494Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I remember this this fun old thing I'm gonna I'll strive for you okay.
[2024-05-30T19:37:54.535Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: Transcriber is not picking me up, regarding this conversation, I very much appreciate where you're coming from Patrick, but when you boil it down, the verification doesn't really mean anything.
[2024-05-30T19:38:23.466Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Sorry Miss can you repeat the last sentence.
[2024-05-30T19:38:43.234Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: checking verification is practically meaningless because any platform can return whatever it wants.
[2024-05-30T19:39:02.028Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: there is a small amount of trust
[2024-05-30T19:39:31.112Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Well is that true because if like let's say you have 1 end point and I know I'm going to get 5 cents 5 of them I think something different that's uh expected well in order for me to correctly identify what is wrong with the credential there needs to be some logic behind it because otherwise if you say it's meaningless to do this well this interrupt test with is meaningless in a sense if people can just do whatever they want um.
[2024-05-30T19:39:56.392Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: its very basic, but the point is its an auth call with a verified payload
[2024-05-30T19:40:18.437Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: No no sorry about the concern Miss are you saying you want the tests on the presentation endpoint to be returned 200 or return error and that's it like so for the interrupt test right let's say Maven is sending something to transmute.
[2024-05-30T19:40:21.896Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: It is a valid credential.
[2024-05-30T19:40:30.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: You should say sure return 200 or if it doesn't return 200 that's fine or what are you advocating for to be in the task itself.
[2024-05-30T19:40:47.734Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: return a 200 or return a 400 if its poorly formatted is what i want
[2024-05-30T19:40:53.329Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  it's because.
[2024-05-30T19:41:10.829Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: For me the the goal and here like the data model is fine but the goal for me is to make sure that 1 implementation Library they use for the crypto Suite or the revocation lists or anything can be other stored by another uh.
[2024-05-30T19:41:23.249Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Implementation I think this is where the the benefit of the interrupt testing is because otherwise uh you know you can't do data model testing on your own endpoint you don't need that interrupts to do this.
[2024-05-30T19:41:28.174Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: And and I agree 100% with Patrick on this to me Miss.
[2024-05-30T19:41:56.774Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: The problem with yourself yeah so so the issue with your argument is is that let's say I am so so here here's the problem that I see that you will face right let's say I have 10 static fixtures and I submit them all to transmute and you want to lie for whatever reason and you're like hey I'm not going to verify you have to still figure out which credentials.
[2024-05-30T19:42:07.309Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Incorrect signatures and then return a 400 on those and which credentials have the correct signatures and return a 200 on those and.
[2024-05-30T19:42:11.287Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: If you're going through that entire effort might as well just like.
[2024-05-30T19:42:40.935Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Actually verifying but even if you don't write the solution to that is we just rotate our fixtures every once in a while and then now you have to go and fix your like go fake it all over again right the the argument that I want to make is this and interrupt test makes sense which is very similar to what Patrick was saying if the behavior that we're going for is actually what's being checked for.
[2024-05-30T19:42:41.247Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  so what I'm.
[2024-05-30T19:42:41.583Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Trying to say what that.
[2024-05-30T19:43:07.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Is what I care is if I send you a presentation and it has garbage credentials for whatever reason it's missing an ID its signature doesn't work I want you to error out now whether you tell me why you error it out is a thing that's a separate point but I want you to error out and I want to check that you have errored out for it because otherwise if you just return 200 for everything.
[2024-05-30T19:43:18.873Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Or if you're if you're literally just like parsing the credentials and you're like hey does this credential match the fixture that I got from Facebook you know what I mean if you're doing that then we're just wasting our time.
[2024-05-30T19:43:59.079Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: So to me what I'm looking for at a minimum set is every must statement in the spec should be testable and every 1 of these tests I believe can be satisfied via the slash presentations endpoint and so let's say I send you a the the spec says uh you must use uh Json LD sorry uh I send you a Json LD with the specs as you must use a jaw right I expect you to 400 on that because the the it's just a bad request to the wrong form right but I also expect you to 400 on if I send you a.
[2024-05-30T19:44:01.931Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Where the signature doesn't work.
[2024-05-30T19:44:04.429Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I think that's.
[2024-05-30T19:44:10.497Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: What I'm saying please use the VC jocosa and we're sending we're sending side credentials.
[2024-05-30T19:44:10.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  I expect.
[2024-05-30T19:44:26.081Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I guess it's an implicit requirement that the signature works but I didn't even think of it as an implicit requirement I just thought it was like the core requirement right if I'm sending you a credential and a signature doesn't work on it you should say hey no that's garbage I don't want it.
[2024-05-30T19:44:28.545Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Does that resonate or.
[2024-05-30T19:45:11.551Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: I worry that we are mixing up the spec in terms of what would need to work in the real world vs what is a test endpoint. the /presentations endpoint is a test endpoint that doesn't work in production
[2024-05-30T19:45:27.458Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Well you know if we are specific and you know we talked must include bits and Status list and so on let's say like even in the real world and you send a presentation to an endpoint and they cannot verify it.
[2024-05-30T19:45:45.504Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Would wouldn't you want to get like a 400 instead of a 200 and assuming that everything was fine like I feel like even in in the in the real world like that's something that should be conveyed like if the the credential you're sending they can't verify it even if you're sending the presentation they should let you know somehow.
[2024-05-30T19:45:52.546Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Brent Russell you guys have any ideas on this.
[2024-05-30T19:46:06.990Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_H_(mesur.io): Um I think what we're currently doing is if a verify fails we return to 200 with the message that it failed.
[2024-05-30T19:46:09.663Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_H_(mesur.io): Whether that verified is false.
[2024-05-30T19:46:17.638Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_H_(mesur.io): This is slash verify.
[2024-05-30T19:46:26.442Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_H_(mesur.io): Oh okay are you are you just talking about if a bad presentation or bad credential is passed to.
[2024-05-30T19:46:35.596Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: If I have a presentation that has a bad credential on it and I submit it to you what am I expecting you to respond with is the core question that.
[2024-05-30T19:46:37.895Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_H_(mesur.io): Yeah um I'd have to look through the code but that is not a 200.
[2024-05-30T19:46:41.431Z]	<Transcriber>	brentz: Well but what do you mean by bad.
[2024-05-30T19:46:58.788Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Invalid signature um revoked uh does not comply with the spec for so for example our spec has a requirement that all credentials have an ID the VC data model doesn't have that requirement but we do in our spec so if I submit to you a presentation that doesn't comply with our spec.
[2024-05-30T19:47:02.725Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: What am I expecting you to reply with.
[2024-05-30T19:47:06.031Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: I have an idea.
[2024-05-30T19:47:14.081Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: So I'm just gonna throw it out let's say so we have this presentation endpoint so if the.
[2024-05-30T19:47:25.069Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Whatever the presentation that's send you know a corresponds to the spec and the the proof is verified is still valid everything 200 if.
[2024-05-30T19:47:32.076Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: What is scent is just not a presentation it's not you know doesn't work it's a 400 and if.
[2024-05-30T19:47:58.686Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: The presentation that's sent has like cannot be verified or is revoked we send a 422 unprocessable unprocessable content so that the 422 says that the the server understands the content type of the request and it's the Sendak is correct but it's unable to process the contained instructions so I think that could maybe be a a good way to differentiate between these these 3 test case.
[2024-05-30T19:48:28.020Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Exactly I I think that the thing that disconnect here is what is my expectation that you're doing and what do I want to know that you're doing and then we can like the actual error codes and whether we do like a 200 with a verify false or we do a 400 or whatever that's a thing that I'm sure we can iron out very reasonably quickly I think there's a core question here of.
[2024-05-30T19:48:35.403Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: When I send you a presentation and it is it has an issue for whatever reason should I expect you to tell me.
[2024-05-30T19:48:43.414Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Or should I expect you to tell me sure give it to me and then you know if it errors out it's on my end right.
[2024-05-30T19:48:46.778Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: I would expect it to tell me that something is wrong with it.
[2024-05-30T19:48:50.549Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: That's my instinct too.
[2024-05-30T19:48:51.811Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: I would expect yeah.
[2024-05-30T19:48:55.621Z]	<Transcriber>	brentz: I I agree that errors need to be communicated.
[2024-05-30T19:49:03.121Z]	<Transcriber>	brentz: I'm concerned that we're overloading the HTTP response codes in a way that might be an appropriate.
[2024-05-30T19:49:17.638Z]	<Transcriber>	brentz: If I submit something through an API and the shape of it is incorrect or there's some data that's that's failing or something went wrong.
[2024-05-30T19:49:34.820Z]	<Transcriber>	brentz: Like is it the shape of the requests that hap like that caused the error or is like the package itself legitimate and then in my verification of the package using business logic or whatever some error occurs.
[2024-05-30T19:49:45.260Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: That that's where I would differentiate it between the 400 which is a bad request and the 422 means that I cannot process that request.
[2024-05-30T19:49:58.240Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: But but Brent do you believe that if I send your presentation with an incorrect signature I should get some form of indication that you think this is a horrible thing and I don't like it.
[2024-05-30T19:50:11.091Z]	<Transcriber>	brentz: I don't know whether the 400 error codes are the right mechanism I'm not going to like if you guys come up with a system that works and makes sense I'm not going to be like no don't do that I'm just.
[2024-05-30T19:50:26.171Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I understand but but your your instinct is there should be a test that if I send you a thing and it's not signed correctly I can write a test that says this is failing or this is passing and I need to be able to detect that okay.
[2024-05-30T19:50:32.290Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Yes do you have anything you want to add.
[2024-05-30T19:50:54.898Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: I agree with the ambition of this idea, but i'm concerned about all the things that need to happen behind that endpoint.
[2024-05-30T19:51:29.911Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: my concern is that we are sneaking out the verify stuff, into the presentation stuff.
[2024-05-30T19:52:03.122Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: it is use case specific that the holder needs to know what the verifier thinks about the credential
[2024-05-30T19:52:14.500Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: So so let me let me try and.
[2024-05-30T19:52:16.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Understand what you're trying to say.
[2024-05-30T19:52:25.036Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I I my understanding is if I submit to your slash presentations endpoint.
[2024-05-30T19:52:32.001Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: The presentation that has no signature attached like or like it's it's corrupt in some way right.
[2024-05-30T19:52:41.686Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: May or may not signal back to me that there's something wrong with this is that okay.
[2024-05-30T19:52:41.961Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  and then.
[2024-05-30T19:52:56.248Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Well how how how would you define your sometimes wouldn't you want it always to be different.
[2024-05-30T19:52:57.276Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Well sometimes means it's always.
[2024-05-30T19:53:09.682Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: So it's it's it's a little bit weird to me this because.
[2024-05-30T19:53:09.855Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  I think.
[2024-05-30T19:53:52.519Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: This is the default behavior that we've been doing measures been doing and I think Patrick was is saying that they do which is in 2 and this is something that I think is maybe a relic of when we were doing the VC API stuff because there there was the core idea that when I submit a presentation I'm verifying all the elements in the presentation and I'm returning to you and I'm saying I verified it and it's great or either I verified it and it sucks we never really tested that yeah I don't think we've ever tested it in the trace interrupt side but it to me it was always a we'll just get to it when we get to a situation not a this is not a thing that we want to do right so that's why I'm a little bit surprised.
[2024-05-30T19:53:58.986Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I understand you're not saying this is a garbage idea like I get that.
[2024-05-30T19:54:12.029Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I understand you're just saying this is a surprise because this is a different method I think this was just a thing that we were all thinking in different and it's a good thing that we're surfacing it now not later because yeah it's a different way of thinking.
[2024-05-30T19:54:30.224Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: But you know like the the advantage that the vapi had is that we could test these interactions So like um you know moving away from the VC API yeah that's okay but that shouldn't mean that we should just not test nothing anymore like the that's the I think that's just a.
[2024-05-30T19:54:50.651Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: You know it's not a conflict but a sensible point when you have proprietary solution uh that you want to test for interoperability and because at the end of the day you need to have an endpoint that things are going to call on which you can conduct some tests and uh you know I think.
[2024-05-30T19:55:11.104Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: The error code even if it's simple it's a nice in the middle to make sure that you've handled something and at the end of the day like we we can't test like every function that you've implemented everything that you've done but at least like if there's 5 fixtures 1 of them is revoked 1 of them there's no proof 1 of them is missing this like the test.
[2024-05-30T19:56:05.777Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Should expect a response based on the input and yeah maybe some of them like for this this this and this 1 it expects a 400 for this this and this 1 expect 200 and you know like don't even need to rotate the the fixtures the the test can just like randomize the order in which it sends the picture I think that that would be enough uh but like there needs to be a bit of a compromise I think for the this part because you know if people come here like if I come here you know the presentation's endpoint all I had to do is to return a 200 then I pass like that's not meaningful and like someone could claim enter a period and then down the line when you want to get into an actual Business Partnership well they have all these problems because they just return to 100 all the time like that's that's something that's uh could be um.
[2024-05-30T19:56:37.823Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: That's real like that's a thing that people have done and I'm sure will do right and and just a second your point Patrick I think the goal of this interrupt and and I think the way I think about it is this if I am using an underlying cryptography library that has a bug in it I should be able to kind of sort of find that out just by sending it to you guys and you all like say hey there's something very wrong with what you're sending me like all these signatures are wrong and it shouldn't tell me the signature is wrong but it should just fail for me.
[2024-05-30T19:56:40.473Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: It could be a signature or.
[2024-05-30T19:56:53.721Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Yeah I remember so so to me and that was so useful because then it was like oh okay there's just an error in the way that every someone's handling this right and so.
[2024-05-30T19:56:57.712Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: That's what something that.
[2024-05-30T19:57:13.957Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Well I mean like.
[2024-05-30T19:57:28.966Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: So it depends on some because sometimes I just like ate the response and I just logged it right and I just returned it to 100 but it depends on the period of time when we were doing this right like I want to say last year I was always returning it 100% and then some point I stopped but.
[2024-05-30T19:57:35.892Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: To me the goal was and always should be.
[2024-05-30T19:57:40.411Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Hey so fundamentally I think the point of the spec is 2 things right.
[2024-05-30T19:57:55.937Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: 1 can I send stuff to you and if I send it to you are you able to understand it right so it's both the like does the tunnel work and does the stuff that I'm sending via the tunnel is that legitimate and then 2.
[2024-05-30T19:58:00.487Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Are all the statements that we are stating in the spec being tested.
[2024-05-30T19:58:06.461Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: If it's true to both of those things I think we're doing a good job in the test Suite.
[2024-05-30T19:58:17.995Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Does not I think we're living a lot of value on the table right and I'm not saying that we need to have all these tests today or whatever right I'm saying this is my goal as an aspirational goal for us to get to.
[2024-05-30T19:58:28.542Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: And that's why I'm saying the presentations end point is like like the reason that I had for like hey it's okay to remove all these conformance stuff is because.
[2024-05-30T19:58:38.003Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Didn't care how you get to the point where I'm sending you the stuff and you're correctly checking it as long as we are getting to that point where I'm sending like.
[2024-05-30T19:58:50.005Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: It is a horrible idea if I have a bug in my signature suite and for the last 3 years I've been sending you stuff and you're just like ah life is good and it works and the board.
[2024-05-30T19:58:58.512Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Right it it just signals a bad thing to the market and like Patrick said all I had to do to pass the presentations and point to us is.
[2024-05-30T19:59:03.467Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Country like literally nothing else right and that was good enough.
[2024-05-30T19:59:03.753Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  which is.
[2024-05-30T19:59:06.465Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Obviously not what we want.
[2024-05-30T19:59:08.246Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: It's just not meaningful like.
[2024-05-30T19:59:21.192Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Um so how about we leave at this we're almost out of time maybe we give every some time to think about 2 separate things 1 what are we looking for.
[2024-05-30T19:59:40.356Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: From these interrupts tests really right and then I I know it's a very small task but 2 um if we go with the error codes like the error ring out and just tell me what the error is do you want to go via an error code do you want to go via a.
[2024-05-30T19:59:56.847Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: A body responds do you want to go with something else and how specific do we want to be do you want to be able to distinguish between an error that it failed because signature verification failed versus an error that failed because of our application failed right.
[2024-05-30T20:00:09.797Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Are those just business questions that we don't need to answer I think these are the 3 like questions that I would like everybody maybe think through and yeah.
[2024-05-30T20:00:49.963Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: To me the presentation's end point is testing and the point of the presentation is on point is I can send you stuff that you can consume you're able to test that the yes it it complies with the spec and if and if this is overloaded for you like we can use a different name for the the word right but to me it's an endpoint that I send you stuff and I can check that you are compliant with this the with everything here.
[2024-05-30T20:00:50.237Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud:  does that.
[2024-05-30T20:01:04.635Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: I I'll have to go but uh yeah I think these are good discussions.
[2024-05-30T20:01:11.389Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: Awesome thank you everyone this was wonderful um gonna have to ask you all to leave so I can.
[2024-05-30T20:01:15.363Z]	<Transcriber>	brentz: Yeah thank you.
[2024-05-30T20:01:16.707Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: At the scribing us thank you everyone all right bye bye.
