Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-08-30-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-08-30-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2022-08-30

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Aug&period_year=2022&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Ben - Transmute, nis, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Orie Steele, Ted Thibodeau

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/547
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I typed as merge first just because listed 
  a lot of work on getting the CI to pass.
Ben_-_Transmute: Also just just a quick note it looks like I'm 
  the only one that transcriber is working for so I think we might 
  want to have a subscriber something on this call.
Ben_-_Transmute: I guess just type in the chat and just kind of 
  give a quick you know play by plate.
Ben_-_Transmute: I can sure I can try so I try to stop subtitles 
  and that starts hotels or should I try to stop recording and 
  start recording I think.
Ben_-_Transmute: All right let's stop recording.
Ben_-_Transmute: And then started running.
https://github.com/jitsi/jitsi-meet-electron/releases
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Ben_-_Transmute: Is that going okay I see some subtitles for me 
  right now.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay that looks like yours is working.
Orie Steele:  Test one two three test one two three.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Mine is working.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Or is it is working.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Not mine 
  either special.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Looks like nessa's.
Ben_-_Transmute: Wait L is working.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  No Ted is working it's just Nestle at least 
  we're back to the standard - it's better than before.
Ben_-_Transmute: The the racist subscribe button it is 
  transcribed by.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/539
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  All right I'm going to go ahead and start 
  moving forward so you can get through anything get through next 
  up is pure number 539 this one is opened by you.
Ben_-_Transmute: I can we do fight can we do 549 first before we 
  do that.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/549
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah that's the one that the type one sure.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/549
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah just do that and then come back to 539 
  after that.
Ben_-_Transmute: Hopefully it doesn't it shouldn't look like it 
  has a conflict I use I forthright off mrs. Branch to do this and 
  so the only changes should be the difference from their head and 
  what this does is this goes through each one of the credentials 
  and provides a standard way of defining the types for each one of 
  our credentials to make it come out right in Json schema.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay this has multiple approvals no change 
  requests it's been open for a while think we're going to go ahead 
  and merge it unless anybody has any objections.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Going back to 53 90 85 39 I think you 
  measure it by accident or I'm version by accident that's funny.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/539
Ben_-_Transmute: Okay well I mean I can.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Well I'm I'm going to go ahead and Link 
  anyway I highly doubt this is going to be anything crazy it has 
  multiple roles as well but please walk us through it.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah it has a free will so that's okay um what 
  this does is right now when we call npm I what this will do is 
  it'll generate the context object in our repository for the API 
  definitions and in order to do that it's calling a function from 
  verifiable data which means that we would have to go to verified 
  data update that function and then re pull it and then update the 
  Shameless and.
Ben_-_Transmute: It's be able to change the contact so what does 
  what does.
Ben_-_Transmute: That function that was on verifiable data puts 
  it into our repository Drive say so any changes we make that we 
  can update the context to do that and that does less basically a 
  precursor for addressing issue 527 where if we want to make any 
  changes to how our context is generated we can do it by changing 
  script in our Repository.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That's he was very helpful again this was 
  original version has multiple approvals but if anyone wants me to 
  revert the merge please speak up.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/550
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Cool nothing wrong happened next up is 550 
  and I think this is Eunice.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Well it's all on some including stuff like 
  Master bill of lading right so it's not just pure screw but yeah 
  yeah.
Ben_-_Transmute: Any can have multiple sites on the credentials 
  it's not mutually exclusive.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah and I don't see any reason why this 
  would be a problem right like this the same tagging in general I 
  think should be as open as we want it to be right yeah absolutely 
  cool looks like it has multiple approvals and if anyone has any 
  there are no objections I'm going to go ahead and merge it.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/551
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Next up is 55 1 which is the revert from 
  experimental PR.
Ben_-_Transmute: I think Miss just dropped off but I can I can 
  describe the change what we did was we tried to get we try to 
  declare verify credentials in a way that we get everything into 
  one file valve separating out the credential subjected to its own 
  rdf type and after trying that looking into how you know the 
  logistics of how that actually works it makes more sense to have 
  each rdf class be its own file.
Ben_-_Transmute: Is reverting back to the.
Ben_-_Transmute: Visual design change.
Ben_-_Transmute: And I went ahead and describe the revert design 
  that you important but it has a conflict resolved that I guess we 
  should say it's okay to merge after fixing out of meeting is that 
  okay.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I believe so there are multiple approvals 
  and I think we knew there was going to be some conflicts today 
  right so I'm going to go ahead and write it please feel free to 
  merge one concept surgery.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Last year we have is a draft PR I don't 
  normally we don't talk about merging them but I think maybe this 
  is a good PR to introduce now nest because you're looking for 
  feedback right.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So the one question I have is when I'm 
  reading this I see for example business location my understanding 
  is this is already defined by UPS has already so what you're 
  trying to do is just copy all their definitions and put them in 
  our repo was that.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay and what you modified really was you 
  added business location business Step 2 and then the idea is that 
  the rest of the terms would be coming from a PCI that's right.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Then why are we not including any of the 
  other one's right there's there's a huge right.
<tallted> (sorry, local interrupt kept me from listening for a 
  bit... hope I missed no major questions)
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay okay sorry I guess I read that I just 
  internalize um there are a number of extensions to this that we 
  have in the base events in the repo itself right things that we 
  felt were important to add to the apcs event right so reference 
  for example to which product this event occurs on or something of 
  that nature right.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think when does PR is finalized I would 
  like it to keep that reference but yeah so would be an extension 
  to the EPC is what not directly wantonly PCS.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That's what I would like is.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I believe that's probably the best way to go 
  forward but I'm open to you know I don't think it makes sense for 
  us to have for example a commission event and an EPC is 
  commission event I feel like.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We're just you know redefining things that 
  should already be the same thing right.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'm happy to take the existing commission 
  event and then we just add any of the apcs fields that should be 
  in it that aren't in it right.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'll put anything else on Trace vocab before 
  we switch to peers on trace and drop.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I believe on Jason truck we have a single PR 
  and I think there were a number of comments on it and I don't 
  think it's ready and I don't believe Chris is with us today.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Actually I'm looking at it now I think 
  there's just a request for reviews from everybody so I'm gonna go 
  ahead and say we are not able to merge this and we'll come back 
  to it next week unless anybody disagrees with that statement.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Today is Trace vocab are there any burning 
  issues that people would like to cover or do we want to start 
  with the least recently updated.
Ben_-_Transmute: Probably at least recently updated is fine.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay so this is the order for the least 
  recently updated for Trace Volcom starting at number 239 as an 
  example of the USMC a product specifier so is open by or a nest 
  has a comment in it there was something that was merged and then 
  the length of the schema 404 is it needs to be fixed this.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   Are you back with us do you know if this 
  is.
Ben_-_Transmute: Of the URL resolves this now which I posted in 
  the.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yep it looks like it works to me I'm going 
  to go ahead and close this issue as complete.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Excellent already making progress next up is 
  your number 273.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/273
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It was opened by Vladimir does anyone have 
  any we are waiting on a suggested change from him.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  And there wasn't anything that I want to 
  know if this relates to any other issue or.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'm going to.
Ben_-_Transmute: Physical profit ressources addressed in place.
Ben_-_Transmute: I just reached in country code.
Ben_-_Transmute: Hierarchy using country I think I think these 
  were added and place.
Orie Steele:  No so please places from schema.org Place supports 
  location that's geo coordinates or address as a postal address 
  postal addresses also defined by schema.org and postal address is 
  what we're currently using for addresses home pretty much 
  everywhere.
Orie Steele:  This is essentially saying postal address on 
  schema.org isn't that great and maybe there's a better way of 
  representing postal addresses but there's insufficient activity 
  on the issue to conclude that my opinion.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Postal 
  addresses are fraught with Peril and their consistent in some 
  nations in some regions but they are not globally consistent at 
  all.
Orie Steele:  Yeah so schema.org he uses postal address and 
  therefore schema.org can't necessarily represent postal addresses 
  across all the agents efficiently The Proposal would be to use an 
  address system that was better than schema.org / postal address 
  and we would need concrete examples on the issue to influenza.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): The only way 
  we're going to win on doing this is using an attribute whatever 
  we call it that basically just takes a string.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Because 
  that's the only thing that is consistent.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It's third 
  hot on the left in some places on a lot of reservations it's just 
  a p.o. box but it's the 17th trailer down that trail we're not 
  going to find a standard thing that works because there isn't 
  one.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think that's fair but I believe the way 
  this issue was phased is we should try switching out of schema 
  org and try one of the other things that were in the comparison 
  right and we'll always saying is is there an actual action item 
  that we can take here and see if that makes sense.
Orie Steele:  Yeah I think Ted's proposal is an alternative to 
  this is stop using postal address and start using a flat string 
  field that contain any possible formulation of a postal address 
  which is a totally valid alternative to what we're currently 
  doing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay Ted I'm going to note your comments.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): That may be 
  better because it does allow you to do things like print an 
  envelope.
Orie Steele:  This is this is one of those base types that 
  affects every certificate so when we do make the change it will 
  be a big change if we make the change.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So I think what this needs to do is we need 
  to actually have more comments on the topic and from there we can 
  actually make a ready for PR attack unless people believe we have 
  reached a consensus of we can just use address field 1 2 3 4 5 
  and run with that I not hearing like everybody's on board with 
  that but.
Ben_-_Transmute: But I guess just to kind of quickly summarize 
  without me and this I think the implementation of that would be 
  we would try to keep our existing address names to be as simple 
  as possible and then change the terms to be 1 2 3 4 5 2.
Ben_-_Transmute: To make this address is that am I understanding 
  that correctly.
Ben_-_Transmute: Or am I even vocalizing that correctly.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think you are but I'm going to try and 
  revisit again it's basically we would try to switch from our 
  existing address to a one two three four five loose address with 
  the caveat that this will have a bunch of changes unless I 
  completely misunderstood we were trying to say about.
Ben_-_Transmute: I'm saying just confirming that we're really 
  changing the terms and not the key values is that the right 
  understanding.
Orie Steele:  No I don't think so I heard the concrete proposal 
  to change the key values and the are is associated with them but 
  I have it again like json-ld example on the issue would make it a 
  lot clearer what people are opposed.
Ben_-_Transmute: Okay yeah that's that's what I wanted to double 
  check before we go.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That sounds good okay let's try and get an 
  example on the issue and we can Circle back to this at a later 
  time.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/286
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Issue number 286 which is about json-ld 
  context and frame this was also opened by Vlad I'm sure json-ld 
  context of measuring from recent schemas but I haven't seen it 
  where is it and or a ping - and been to respond this was in the 
  24th of May.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I think.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah he's pixie just saying what is what is the 
  URL for the Jason don't eat context when we post and then in the 
  second comment he has it says thanks this allows us to diagnose 
  pain issues quickly does that mean this could be closed.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah looks like cousin asked and answered 
  gonna post right.
Orie Steele:  You should say something like that and close it.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'm going to.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/406
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Next up is number 406 apply 50 to trade 
  Finance related VCS is opened by or e or you can give us a quick 
  what is fiber.
Orie Steele:  500 Is a financial business ontology it is defines 
  a a bunch of different terms related to finance things like loans 
  and that kind of thing the main purpose of including a here was 
  in the context of when we have to describe something in json-ld 
  or in already have.
Orie Steele:  The best ontology for representing those financial 
  terms such that they can be understood by all the largest group 
  of people and 50 as far as I'm aware is the best ontology for 
  this kind of thing so that's why I opened the issue and then I 
  think Francis him is the person who commented on it and he 
  included some examples about you know things that you might see 
  and verifiable credentials.
Orie Steele:   Regarding Finance.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Fair enough looks like next steps are a 
  concrete proposal of what credential types we want to add 250 if 
  there are any that people feel have not been represented is that 
  what you had in mind Dory.
Orie Steele:  Yeah we should review already have classes that are 
  related to finance and that we have today and then we should look 
  at 50 and see if there's a better alternative.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'm gonna keep it open oh I guess you what 
  the commentators broke I'll just write now we guess we're going 
  to keep this open and look to Circle back unless somebody is 
  willing to be assigned to this issue.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  All right I'm going to head and put a 
  comment looking to take.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay does anyone else have anything they'd 
  like to add about 406.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/230
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay moving on to the next issue which is 
  issue number 230 this is an issue you opened talking about how 
  specific should we be with identifiers you want to walk us 
  through it.
<tallted> maybe tag 406 "help wanted"?
<orie> thanks! ^ i added it
Ben_-_Transmute: Just a general agreement that we want to be more 
  specific than schema.org when possible and disability context.
Orie Steele:  Yes that's true all of our credential modeling 
  what's the specific changes that this particular issue.
Orie Steele:  I think yeah I think we should close it.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Does anyone disagree with closing with the 
  show.
Ben_-_Transmute: II thought that I mean that kind of goes with 
  the previous issue that we just talked about 50 to trade Finance 
  related PCS is that like the whole premise of Trace vocab is to 
  try to find the right vocabulary to find each term so having 
  specific terms for specific identifiers tends to go with that 
  trend.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/423
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay I'm going to go ahead and close it next 
  one is for 23 Implement a link Builder plugin for address to 
  Google Maps easily allow for getting GPS coordinates from 
  examples.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Ted noted that this would require you to 
  have postal ZIP codes that are actually accurate and they map to 
  real to the rest of the address including real City Town names 
  and or it was saying up that's why we want to set it to test all 
  the victims were using looks like there is General support for 
  the idea of building this I'm going to go ahead and tag it as 
  help wanted unless anybody would like to be assigned to it right 
  now.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Or I guess we can talk about ready.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay I'm going to go ahead please.
Ben_-_Transmute: I'm going to ask a stupid question because I 
  know how very poorly defined a lot of our dresses are how 
  important is this in terms of data definition like I think a lot 
  of the addresses in our you know in our scheme has don't really 
  reference real place it's like oh this is an organ or this is 
  generic motors with y'all a company they have bits of doesn't 
  exist so I'm kind of wondering of you know if.
Ben_-_Transmute: Using kind of generic you know.
Ben_-_Transmute: Do any of the addresses in our repository really 
  contained me beyond what they defined for the schema or context.
Orie Steele:  Yeah that's a good question I think when I created 
  this issue ages ago my thought was what if I could just click on 
  the address and see it on a Google map and how hard is it to 
  convert any written form of the address to a Google Maps search 
  where you get dropped on them at and that's where the issue kind 
  of came from was like we could describe that in some way that we 
  useful but.
Orie Steele:  This issue can just be closed as you know 
  implementation-specific Grinders can handle it over they want.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I know on our end we so one part of this is 
  that the vocabulary does not have anything any fields that are 
  basically required so it is perfectly valid to have an address 
  with a GPS coordinates that are missing right and so it's I guess 
  up to each vendor how they handle that case it's also update 
  wonder how they handle GPS coordinates that are absolutely wrong 
  or.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   They do not map to they're real.
Ted Thibodeau: 
  https://www.google.com/maps/search/1+main+street,+anytown+anystate+12345,+USA
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Place do we really want our example 
  credentials to link to real spots I guess is the question they're 
  asking why right is this something that we care about.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Or is it just because it does anybody else 
  have any other input.
Ben_-_Transmute: I also kind of search closing it's not 
  specifically relevant to the vocabulary and schema definitions 
  and I think that the the address and itself only has meeting when 
  we have you know real world data from you know actual clients or 
  customers or users of our platforms and I think that that would 
  be a vendor specific implementation for how that data is handled.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I guess we have.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): To some to 
  some degree I agree with that but on the other hand we've got a 
  whole bunch of fake data in here and either it's useful for 
  demonstrating things or it's not if it's not useful then get it 
  out and if it is useful then make it actually usable I mean it 
  doesn't have to be really complex to do a fake address.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Now you can 
  put your finger on the globe and say okay it's here and use 
  whatever attributes of it you want whether that's lat long or 
  that's a street address or it's something else.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Right now 
  we've got a bunch of fake data that is really really thick 
  because it's really bad and it's not at all even close to usable 
  for testing whether these things work though they that we're 
  saying they do.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think Teddy goes to what is the purpose of 
  the fake data that we have in in my mind the point of the fake 
  data is to make sure that you have an example of what the 
  structure would be and an example of the format of what it is 
  they are using and not that it actually corresponds to real-world 
  data right I think it would be nicer if they were reasonable fake 
  addresses but do you see anybody opening the vocabulary pulling.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   Up a credential that includes a place.
<nis> We have proper, realistic fake data too
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Acting that place to be close to real 
  because my experience with this has been oh no all of these are 
  just you know I'm using this so I know what I'm going to build in 
  it I know what the thing looks like this is an example that I'm 
  you know you.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Okay that 
  that being the case then I suggest that the data that we have in 
  there be more more fake more obviously fake.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah like more lorem ipsum me and just yeah.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): You know 
  example core one example Street example City you know that just 
  really blatant that this is not expected to do anything like work 
  because right now what's in there is stuff that looks like it 
  could be aught of work.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): And I thought 
  it was there for testing the vocab in some ways.
Orie Steele:  So there's there are images of documents where we 
  attempted to convert real world example document to new Json data 
  model and in those cases the intention is that the data is as 
  reflective as the image of the document and there are other cases 
  where we're trying to do exactly what you said like it's just an 
  example Street you know I think we have both of them and I.
Orie Steele:   I agree with the comment you made earlier.
Orie Steele:  If the example data is supposed to be helpful it 
  should be nice looking yes so I'm not sure that this issue helps 
  address any of that though because this is about building a link 
  for specific type of address.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Right I get 
  it I pasted a link a little higher in the chat that basically the 
  Google Map for insert address here.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay looks like they're generalized support 
  for closing this issue and if there is an issue regarding how we 
  clean up our data I think that's its own separate thing that 
  somebody should open and that somebody could probably be me 
  because I'm you know I'm not exactly happy with the way.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'm plus 1 instead here I think it should be 
  more fake or you know more realistic but I don't think this exact 
  issue is that right.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah the this issue is about specifically 
  clicking click the links and be able to go to Google but what 
  this they say identified as that we either need Super pick 
  addresses or we more realistic looking addresses but that means 
  this issue can be closed and then optionally the issue about 
  addresses looking nicer super fake is a separate issue.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'm going to go ahead and close this unless 
  there are any objections.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Next up is number 272.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/272
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  This was opened by Vladimir again legal and 
  setting for intelligence and published six months ago we should 
  use the legal entity identifier ontology please use it in linked 
  data when I'm rapping if possible use by prefixes we have not 
  defined anything regarding L EI is a comment from orry I believe 
  that has since changed unless I'm wrong - I thought you added 
  some other guy stuff unless I'm mister.
Ben_-_Transmute: Call Ashley I can surf it stood with the whole I 
  try to take this up before with a little bit of interaction of 
  flood we have Elliot address Ellie I30 Ellie I entity Elia 
  evidence document Ellie I registration and Ali I legal identifier 
  credential and Vlad said that pay service these classes and which 
  attributes you're using and also provide.
Ben_-_Transmute: Decisions about providing.
Ben_-_Transmute: Feedback but after my last post there has been 
  no full of from flight on this.
Ben_-_Transmute: Oh that's probably one of those ones separate 
  issue that's being targeted for removal that we should probably 
  take out if it's called a credential but it doesn't have the 
  proof.
Ben_-_Transmute: But as far as the other ones yeah I think yeah 
  they've kind of want some specific examples for what the 
  suggestion suggested changes for each one specific attributes or 
  if the yet or if attributes needed to be had and what was the 
  term speak on the issue for this be ready for report Plus.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay I believe the action item here is I 
  have ping blood to try and respond to you to keep the 
  conversation going unless you believe this should be closed.
Ben_-_Transmute: I think it it's a plaid to follow up on the 
  issue or if this if you feel strongly about you know jumping into 
  this and fixing our Ellie I terms this is definitely not my area 
  of expertise so I don't you know I think this would know how to 
  own this better than I do.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay I'm going to type this as help wanted 
  and I have pink blood if anyone has anything else they want to 
  add to this issue please feel free.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Moving on to add vocabulary with 
  reservations to CD so it's assigned to me and I don't think I 
  ever got around to it so this is on me.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think this is they're not triggered when 
  we actually like they're not rebuilt right.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So this is possibly a stale.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Topic do you have a PR where this was fixed.
Orie Steele:  I don't remember if they are I think they're I 
  think they're being automatically updated it's a process but it's 
  possible I have to be manually rerun I don't remember how I said 
  it up.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'm looking at the GitHub workflows and 
  neither of them seem to be running the step unless I am missing 
  something.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay what I'll do is I'll keep it open and 
  my task will be to just double check if it is actually still or 
  not right.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That's right moving forward then we have 
  number 444 with getting started updates we were looking for 
  documentation allowing new person Julie to allow a new person 
  joining the repo to modify an existing schema add the new scheme 
  and I believe this is done now on this and misremembering we have 
  development MD.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  As the Director of structure has conventions 
  it talks about how to use it and it has a getting started section 
  I believe this is complete unless someone thinks that our getting 
  started needs a bit of a revamp.
Ben_-_Transmute: No I think that there is always room for 
  improvement but I think we can probably say that this is good 
  enough.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/445
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Fair enough then you open number four for 
  five which was to remove the optionality of string versus array 
  for type I think you've been tackling this and I think this is 
  the two of the peers that we merge today so that's.
Ben_-_Transmute: I think that probably miss put a name on that 
  one with the pr earlier so that would probably be would probably 
  started considering this to be done.
Ben_-_Transmute: Okay I guess this is this issues generally 
  introducing the idea of do they want to accept that as a we've 
  already been kind of moving that direction in terms of you know 
  removing optionality for this one how does anyone else feel about 
  this and there's anyone else taking steps to go towards.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So I know on the oil and gas side we have 
  completed this so what I'll do is I'll update the status has to 
  say that steel is done e-commerce is done oil and gas are done 
  and I'll ping Mike to confirm if they are done on actually no 
  looks like some of the crude oil products are not done all right 
  never mind looks like I was taught something different okay.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Ted says please retitle.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think I saw since we are at time does 
  anyone have anything urgent I'd like to bring up before we end 
  our call today.
Ben_-_Transmute: Who I guess I'll go ahead and I'll volunteer to 
  the.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thank you for that and let me know if the 
  recording failed because we re-recorded right like because we 
  turn it off and turn it on again let me know if that your first 
  anything I am talking to my new in an hour and a half so I'll 
  bring up the issue that you had this which is you're on Mac the 
  local client did not work and chrome did not work and I believe 
  you said Safari also did not work right.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  But it didn't work last night right so I'll 
  try and talk to a man of today and see I'll give him an update on 
  that hopefully we can get to know.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah as a side note on the recording side stuff 
  reporting sorry recording didn't kick start the subtitles to 
  start working again if you hit stops I don't subtitles and start 
  subtitles that works so if that happens again on the call we 
  should probably continue recording and then just toggle the stop 
  start on the subtitles.
Ben_-_Transmute: All right see.
