[2023-03-07T20:01:08.583Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:01:08.584Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:01:22.488Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:01:33.289Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:01:41.981Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:02:56.625Z]	<John_Henderson>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:03:21.985Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:04:39.573Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-03-07T20:04:39.573Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: vcapi
[2023-03-07T20:04:57.122Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2023Mar/0024.html
[2023-03-07T20:04:58.983Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:05:11.208Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: There we go welcome everyone to the Tuesday March 7th 2023 VC API call agenda is in B Channel today on the agenda we should probably just skip pull request reviews because I haven't been able to get to those.
[2023-03-07T20:05:42.366Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Reductions reintroductions relevant Community updates if you have any we're going to continue our discussion on be Capi exchanges the only concern I have there is that both Patrick and show aren't here so that might be somewhat problematic since they also need to be a part of that conversation the other items we have is defining the extensibility rules for VC API endpoints and then.
[2023-03-07T20:05:42.725Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  closing in.
[2023-03-07T20:05:53.803Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:05:59.573Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Shoe that's been open for a while now so we might want to process those issues are there any other updates to the agenda or anything else folks would like to discuss today.
[2023-03-07T20:06:08.342Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:06:13.734Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: I have a community update but it's not a pi or Astoria agenda item necessary just to follow up on the open Wallet stuff.
[2023-03-07T20:06:27.913Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Community Updates
[2023-03-07T20:06:31.931Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Got you okay we'll cover that when we get into relevant Community updates which is up next I think we all know each other here so we'll just go into Community updates go ahead John.
[2023-03-07T20:07:03.568Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: Okay great yeah so just to recap 30 second recap of last week I proposed that we as a VC aapi Community do a presentation to the open Wallet Foundation technical architecture group with the goal of sharing knowledge or knowledge about PC API so that they can hopefully accept an implementation of these apis part of the open.
[2023-03-07T20:07:03.877Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson:  solid foundation work so.
[2023-03-07T20:07:25.713Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: I brought that up I propose that to the technical architecture organizers or leadership and they're in favor of it so as soon as we have a presentation ready willing to give us a slot which is good and.
[2023-03-07T20:07:26.011Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson:  I started working.
[2023-03-07T20:07:27.191Z]	<Patrick_(IDLab)>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:07:30.532Z]	<Eric_S>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:07:31.746Z]	<John_Henderson>	https://hackmd.io/@JohnEnergyWeb/HJyvcDEJh
[2023-03-07T20:07:49.017Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:07:53.757Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: Hiya possible presentation outline put that in the chat it's very just a proposal and it could completely be changed but if anyone has any comments I've enabled comments for this pack of do document so please add those or you know you and provide a completely alternate.
[2023-03-07T20:08:02.673Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: Doggy fine as well there's no timeline for doing this but I suppose it's already better.
[2023-03-07T20:08:07.888Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: That's it thanks.
[2023-03-07T20:08:20.696Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Excellent John thank you very much and the a Kim D is a fantastic start I think it's a really good I think breakdown on how to explain what we're attempting to do here.
[2023-03-07T20:08:31.712Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That's great thank you thank you for bringing up with them it's great that they're open to it I think the structure of this looks really good.
[2023-03-07T20:08:46.746Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And so yeah let me I mean it it feels like you're kind of running with this which is great like plus 12 that I am I interpreting this correctly.
[2023-03-07T20:09:18.700Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: Yeah that's fair I'm I'm a bit worried about my lack of really having everyone's context for do really do the presentation Justice and I think some of the like this comparison portion in particular is a bit controversial and I think I would certainly need help to do that appropriately and actually using these implementations to I think that's an important bit and if anyone had an implementation they would want to highlight be good.
[2023-03-07T20:09:19.227Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Great Patrick Europe.
[2023-03-07T20:09:29.817Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And you might be muted yeah well we can't hear audio from you if you're speaking.
[2023-03-07T20:09:40.519Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Still no audio and you're muted.
[2023-03-07T20:09:42.508Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And there he goes.
[2023-03-07T20:09:48.259Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:10:13.915Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Second time's the charm just yeah of course so John you know I think the expectation here would be that you know you'd put something together and and we could take a look at it as a group and we definitely spend call time doing that and giving you feedback and then as long as everyone's you know cool with the presentation deck you know a number of us would join you on the call to the owf.
[2023-03-07T20:10:18.972Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Feel like a reasonable way to kind of proceed on this.
[2023-03-07T20:10:21.499Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: That sounds great.
[2023-03-07T20:10:24.955Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay yes Patrick we can we can here.
[2023-03-07T20:10:28.654Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Alright thank you I change browser my mother's permission.
[2023-03-07T20:10:52.401Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Can I go ahead with what yeah and one thing I just was curious I know the we don't have implementation for that but they were talking about supporting other credential types or models like mdl was given as an example I don't see this reflected and the slide is it something you plan to touch on.
[2023-03-07T20:11:16.193Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: Yeah I guess I had thought about putting the credential format like for instance there's there's some json-ld that I've noticed in the VC API so maybe nobody that and they are talking about future extensions for the credential pipes that's a great item to have here thanks.
[2023-03-07T20:11:49.014Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The one kind of warning I'll put out I mean I think that's a good thing actually I don't know I don't know how people will take it I know that some people that are implementing mdl will view it as a hostile thing because you know it's do ID is all ID for is supposed to be you know the mechanism for moving you know mdl stuff around there is no API for you know issuing and and verifying like a you know sir.
[2023-03-07T20:11:49.388Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  service issue or service verifier service.
[2023-03-07T20:12:12.964Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The do that but we should be careful about not stomping on the wrong Toes or potentially diluting the message around it so I so I'm not saying don't do it I'm not saying do it I'm saying we should be aware of you know kind of the politics around the eye so mdl work.
[2023-03-07T20:12:13.288Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  go ahead Pat.
[2023-03-07T20:12:29.496Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah well if your judgment is that it could be more aim towards the VC API exchange and just mention briefly that looking to expand without getting into specifics of why how.
[2023-03-07T20:13:01.717Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah and and to be clear I'm very much on the fence about it like this API can absolutely support issuance you know mechanisms through other alternative credential formats you know issue is jots issue is a CDC issue is Gordon envelope issue is mdl like those are all theoretically supported but of course by uttering any one of those things each one of those communities might view it as you know an aggressive thing or they might.
[2023-03-07T20:13:02.080Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  might view it as you know a.
[2023-03-07T20:13:14.974Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah I think your judgment will be good here I feel like you've probably seen the the space long enough to know how things can turn so.
[2023-03-07T20:13:31.426Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep unfortunately okay well in any case I mean you know that that could that's a small part of kind of this this overview of what we're what we're trying to do here John and I think this this outlines great.
[2023-03-07T20:13:38.456Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay anything else you want to cover John before we move in to the agenda.
[2023-03-07T20:13:39.776Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: No thank you.
[2023-03-07T20:13:53.196Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay awesome thanks for that the other thing I wanted to mention is that the let me see the ecdsa.
[2023-03-07T20:14:26.439Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So there are a couple of things going on feature freeze is that the end of this month in the verifiable credentials working group that means that they're not going to take on any new work we have we meaning digital Bazaar has proposed a test suite for the verifiable credential working group that is powered by the VC API there have been some objections to that people were like well you can't you shouldn't mandate the be Capi just so that we can pass the.
[2023-03-07T20:14:26.948Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  tests and I think the response so far is like yes.
[2023-03-07T20:14:58.288Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You can use any you know this is just one of the test Suites you can create a different test Suite you can modify the test Suite that we have to use a different API if you want to like some people were like I shouldn't have to run an instance of anything to be able to pass the test Suite I should be able to use Docker run from the command line and we were like okay yeah sure like if you want to do that go ahead and test Suite is built be able to handle that.
[2023-03-07T20:14:58.628Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  and they seem to.
[2023-03-07T20:15:31.124Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I mean you know with that approach so the First Community item is we have proposed VC API driven test Suite where the API is optional and all the people can extend the test suite for verifiable credentials to them so that's item one item two is that the test Suites for the data Integrity signatures for the digital signatures portions of this or powered by the VC API as well because it's again.
[2023-03-07T20:15:31.473Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  it's really easy to make a single call in issue and a.
[2023-03-07T20:16:01.915Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All in verify so that's that's happening the third item is this ecdsa crypto sweet proposal went out to the community list effectively the short story about ecdsa is that you need to support it if you're going to use Hardware security modules fips-compliant Hardware security modules with like.
[2023-03-07T20:16:02.199Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  Murs like.
[2023-03-07T20:16:28.957Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: European governments US federal government that kind of thing you can't use EDSA that is not approved in Hardware security module form so if you are an implementer and if you're interested in supporting ecdsa through your issuer verifier interface please add your name to that list of signatures Patrick Europe.
[2023-03-07T20:16:50.826Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Just curious are you are saying there's a test suite for descriptive sweet the VC API is like one of the bridge available between the test suite and an implementation and then you mentioned something about the data model 2.0 is there a strong link between descriptor suite and the data model 2.0.
[2023-03-07T20:17:20.201Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: No there's not a strong link there it's supposed to be independent things there's a relationship there and to be clear the relationship is in the in the 20 data model in the 2-0 verifiable credentials data model we've defined this thing called a data Integrity proof which is effectively supposed to be a placeholder for any kind of data Integrity proof so with that one mechanism actually here let me.
[2023-03-07T20:17:20.580Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  it's easier to show instead of.
[2023-03-07T20:17:51.140Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So see this example here and see how type is data Integrity proof and crypto sweet is ecdsa 2019 it used to be for every single crypto sweet you'd have to define a new type in that meant that you'd have to include a new crypto sweet in the in the json-ld context now the base verifiable credential 20 context defines data Integrity proof.
[2023-03-07T20:18:09.348Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: For this for this one specific distant yeah okay.
[2023-03-07T20:18:23.911Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And then we have descriptive sweet parameter where this thing is an arbitrary string basically and what that means is that you no longer need to pull in crypto sweet contexts in the 20 data model for data Integrity proofs yes yep exactly yeah and data Integrity proof covers EDSA ecdsa it's going to cover BBS it can basically cover any kind of you know crypto sweet in the reason we did this is to make it.
[2023-03-07T20:18:24.267Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  easier for people to.
[2023-03-07T20:18:30.249Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Innovate in a more decentralized way around crypto sweets.
[2023-03-07T20:18:54.714Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The alternative was you would need to Lobby the verifiable credentials working group to include your crypto sweet in the base context in I think folks saw that as a problematic thing because then the verifiable credential working group would start gatekeeping crypto sweets which they shouldn't be doing that makes sense Patrick.
[2023-03-07T20:18:57.877Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah yeah part of it for the the good part.
[2023-03-07T20:19:04.817Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah yeah apologies there's a lot there but I'm trying to summarize.
[2023-03-07T20:19:22.459Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so that's just a heads up if you're interested in supporting ecdsa please look at the post to the credentials community group there's a letter there that we ask you to put your name on if you want to support.
[2023-03-07T20:19:32.432Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I think that is yeah that's it for Community updates for me any other community updates before we move on go ahead Patrick.
[2023-03-07T20:20:02.862Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Sorry let's see today so one thing that's I think is quite interesting so I've been experimenting a lot with the adult creds specification so like sometimes the end of last year they made the non credential it's alms specification well before it was component of Aries so now they have a rust library that can be leveraged by many different Frameworks.
[2023-03-07T20:20:03.209Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  and within that Library they are.
[2023-03-07T20:20:35.521Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Rappers there's a JavaScript python and a go wrapper so I've been experimenting with the python wrapper and sort of experimenting with the VC API these sort of thing and it allows to create all the necessary objects to issue a non credential and if the group here is interested I could probably have a demo and maybe a week or two.
[2023-03-07T20:20:36.075Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  using did webs.
[2023-03-07T20:20:49.373Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: To demonstrate the resources created and bit how it works and to know discuss about it was.
[2023-03-07T20:21:00.016Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah plus 12 that I think it'd be great to see a demo to see how you implemented that and how its expressed and did web and I mean if you're looking for you know feedback from the group I'm sure folks would be happy to provide feedback.
[2023-03-07T20:21:12.154Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Would also be really neat to see how BC apis leverage to do exactly that because you know that's something we've said in theory is possible but you'd make it very real with adem.
[2023-03-07T20:21:41.622Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Nothin what's interesting here so you can issue like I don't crayons but they also working on their sort of an unquenched format to that VC data model 1.0 so there's sort of a mapping that sort of proof of concept mapping that can be done so it's interesting to see how these components and the objects are leveraged with like the credential ship.
[2023-03-07T20:21:42.012Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  Emma field.
[2023-03-07T20:21:47.275Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Do you sort of think so.
[2023-03-07T20:21:52.885Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah yeah yeah plus 1 just let us know when you want to do the demo and we can set aside call time to take a look at it.
[2023-03-07T20:22:01.010Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: I'll let you know at least like a week in advance or like at the meeting I'll make sure to let know for the following week or something.
[2023-03-07T20:22:03.074Z]	<PL/T3_ASU>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:22:06.630Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Excellent sounds great thank you Patrick that's exciting stuff it will be neat to see that working.
[2023-03-07T20:22:14.579Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay any other updates Community updates before we jump into.
[2023-03-07T20:22:17.585Z]	<PL/T3_ASU>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:22:20.023Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: DV Capi exchanges discussion continuing that one.
[2023-03-07T20:22:25.655Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: VC API Roles and Components
[2023-03-07T20:23:34.235Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Patrick I think you were first and then Joe.
[2023-03-07T20:24:03.364Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah at the what you propose is a good idea I I wanted to share a thought that I had and I was hesitating between sharing it or not but I figure I'll just share it anyways and can do what we want with that so we spent a few meetings talking about what components live where and I think those meetings were very interesting.
[2023-03-07T20:24:03.739Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  and I think.
[2023-03-07T20:24:26.814Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Lots of the importance of those meeting was more to just discuss about the functionalities but there was something that didn't quite sit right with me is when we were at assigning certain endpoints to like an H word we're very far your holder the more I thought about it.
[2023-03-07T20:24:27.145Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  I'm sorry.
[2023-03-07T20:24:58.023Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: You think this has kind of limiting for a good example well there was the example of the get credentials which you know was living on the issuer and the holder and then I think we decided you could live on the verifier and another example would be like the credentials verify endpoint for example if it lives on if we say it lives on the verifier like wouldn't there could be use case where a holder would want to.
[2023-03-07T20:24:58.381Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  verify your credentials.
[2023-03-07T20:25:30.410Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Issued to him so we would need that capability as well same thing maybe on the issuer would want to verify your credential before it issues it as a sort of check so I was curious what your thoughts were about this what I thought was very and important for those meeting with to know if the endpoint lived on a service or a coordinator I think that was very interesting but.
[2023-03-07T20:25:30.739Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  I'm wondering if.
[2023-03-07T20:25:50.578Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Assigning and point to a role is a good idea or if these endpoints should more be seen as functionalities that any sort of implementation could use some make sense.
[2023-03-07T20:25:55.605Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes it's a good good question I'll put myself on the Queue to provide thoughts Joe you're up next.
[2023-03-07T20:26:01.698Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah some thoughts I had it hopefully I remember what I put myself on key for the.
[2023-03-07T20:26:12.011Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to provide thoughts on "doesn't everyone need a verifier service"?
[2023-03-07T20:26:16.395Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack pat
[2023-03-07T20:26:33.806Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Reason we Define that it's for a role is because of the security model with these three different parties and and actually there are right there are arguably six parties or six components between the coordinators and the services and not all services in fact most services are only accessible by the coordinator and so teasing that out was part of why we're defining who which.
[2023-03-07T20:26:34.152Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  which component and endpoint.
[2023-03-07T20:27:07.374Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: To be on and he was expected to call it which I think has been really useful what I got on the key for was I'd like to like I like what you talked about man in terms of those to the breakdown of those too but I would like to understand another know if we need to before we could do it later it was positive that there are things that must go through an exchange that cannot there are as functionality within the VC API that isn't just about.
[2023-03-07T20:27:07.753Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  poking or creating an exchange but for which we.
[2023-03-07T20:27:12.624Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:27:29.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: No other API to implement I could get credential but there's there's some things apparently that have to go through exchanges so I'd like to understand better that set of use cases where we don't have another endpoint that could do it without this capability URL that's that's created by an exchange.
[2023-03-07T20:28:00.703Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes I think that's a fantastic thing to focus on because that was one of the discs disconnects I think last time that Patrick to speak to one of the questions that you asked which is you know we have this diagram right and we talked about a verifiers coordinator and a verifier service being accessible to a verifier coordinator and the question you asked is well holders need to verify as well right and so do issue.
[2023-03-07T20:28:01.052Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  hours like where is why is there no verifier service.
[2023-03-07T20:28:22.279Z]	<Dave_Longley>	q+ to say they are playing a different role when that happens
[2023-03-07T20:28:34.096Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And I I think it's missing from the diagram so right so you're absolutely right holders need to verifier verify an issuer's need to verify in and they use services to do that in would it confuse things help things if we add added that to the diagram right so that's a general question I have to the group but I think it's absolutely true right yeah so if you if you talk.
[2023-03-07T20:28:34.532Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  talk a lot of.
[2023-03-07T20:28:35.055Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Wait I didn't take myself off the key that was weird sorry.
[2023-03-07T20:28:47.602Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-03-07T20:28:50.883Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2023-03-07T20:28:51.999Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah anyway if it yeah if it hears you utter something it'll and you raise your hand at a lot of remove you anyway so Patrick hopefully that's helpful.
[2023-03-07T20:29:10.223Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: I think because what you just said makes sense I think because in my head I had a hard time separating the role in the service I think it's not like a vision of things I'm used to see so the issue issue role could have a verifying service.
[2023-03-07T20:29:43.229Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Of the endpoint is bind to the verify your service not the very far Your Role I think that's what my misconception was around and this makes sense and I wanted to add something regarding what Joe said about functionalities that are behind the exchange I would be very interested in this because they I'm sure we will touch on the the object like the what I was saying with a non-credit like there's some objects that need to be created.
[2023-03-07T20:29:43.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  and I'm curious to see if this is closed.
[2023-03-07T20:29:53.338Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Sort of functionality to always mentioning that are only permitted to exchange services and how that could fit in so very.
[2023-03-07T20:29:58.211Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-03-07T20:30:02.978Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep plus 1 let's let's start there because that might shed a lot of light on things a viewer on the Queue and then Jew.
[2023-03-07T20:30:31.124Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	s/Jew/Joe/
[2023-03-07T20:30:33.056Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I think one of the things we struggle with continuously when talking through all these things is this concept that the role that any particular individual plays can change over time depending on whatever interactions going on so the way I tend to think about what Patrick was bringing up was if you were playing the role of holder and then you want to start verifying something you switch roles you because you start playing the role of verifier and so it would just be that you would.
[2023-03-07T20:30:33.455Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  I'd have some software.
[2023-03-07T20:31:04.626Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: He would run both the holder coordinator and a verifier coordinator and you would switch over to that role as a verifier when you want to verify things but I don't know if that that concept itself is fully covers the way people think about how things work in this ecosystem it still feels to me like there's room for some confusion or conflation and it's kind of hard for people to grasp so I don't know if we quite yet have the right tools to talk about.
[2023-03-07T20:31:05.078Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  out these things.
[2023-03-07T20:31:10.831Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Thanks Dave Joe Europe.
[2023-03-07T20:31:13.369Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack dave
[2023-03-07T20:31:16.330Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-03-07T20:31:41.497Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah plus one I was going to say just about everything Dave just said including the fact that even though I think we've tried to be pretty clear about this the notion that a given party could engage in any one of these roles at any time and when they are engaging with that role they're acting as that role right so the same party could be an issuer one moment and then verify the own the thing they just issued but when they're verifying the thing they just issued they are.
[2023-03-07T20:31:42.002Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  we acting as a verifier in that moment in that moment in time.
[2023-03-07T20:31:49.547Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Wish we had better language but I think they've said what I wanted to say.
[2023-03-07T20:31:49.779Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-03-07T20:32:00.566Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We if we used a four-dimensional hypercube Hazard go ahead Patrick.
[2023-03-07T20:32:29.003Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah I so if I understand like a role is with is like tied to an interaction so as soon as you have one agent or implementation interacting with another D each assume a role in that interaction but I would disagree that you necessarily need to be a verified to verify because if I have an issue and a holder and I want to establish a sort of a.
[2023-03-07T20:32:29.305Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  going to send exchange process.
[2023-03-07T20:33:01.671Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: If that's the right term but I want to establish an interaction and before the end of the interaction the holder needs to verify the credential it's been issued before the interaction is finished I would still say that he's still playing the role of a holder in that interaction but he's just verifying the credential as they're sort of validity mechanism finalize it yeah let's say let's have a holder and I receive a credential.
[2023-03-07T20:33:10.677Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: He's doing what it's his verified that sorry sorry that was that was meant to be jocular because in saying that he's verifying he's acting as a verifier he's in the role of are fire in that moment.
[2023-03-07T20:33:16.954Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2023-03-07T20:33:28.629Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Maybe yeah yeah yeah I would tie the role to the interaction between two parties they have and as long as the interaction is open maybe you can change road with an interaction but II see the understanding the distinction I'm not sure I understood fully.
[2023-03-07T20:33:32.093Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: That's tricky I wish we had better language.
[2023-03-07T20:33:32.209Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-03-07T20:33:34.102Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2023-03-07T20:33:34.561Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Eight more words.
[2023-03-07T20:33:58.873Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah and I think that's the that's the problem and that's I am concerned about that Joe meaning like you know once once it's explained to you it takes a little bit like sink in and then you're like oh yeah okay I've got that in my mental model now but it is not immediately obvious when looking to looking at the diagram or or any of that stuff right and so you know it's like a good joke if it.
[2023-03-07T20:33:59.202Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  has to be explained.
[2023-03-07T20:34:23.994Z]	<Dave_Longley>	perhaps defining the roles as depending on another party in an interaction is problematic ... or that perhaps people need to understand that two parties can play multiple different roles in the same "interaction"
[2023-03-07T20:34:25.799Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's probably not a good joke right so I'm wondering if there is another way that I mean it's this is just I think the group needs to think about is there a better way to kind of represent this I think what we have right now is is the is the best thing that we can think of but clearly there's still a gap there that we need to address go ahead Dave.
[2023-03-07T20:34:26.029Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack dave
[2023-03-07T20:34:37.527Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I was trying to type out what I was thinking before I lose it I think part I agree with the sort of.
[2023-03-07T20:35:08.517Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Because we don't have a clear way of thinking about this and formalizing it and we're sort of grasping at what Patrick was saying we're we're like how are we going to Define these roles we're going to say there's an interaction between two parties and during that entire interaction party a plays role one and party B plays role to and it might be the case that we need to loosen that further and say there's in there is an interaction between two parties but during that interaction you might switch and play different.
[2023-03-07T20:35:08.950Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  trolls depending on what.
[2023-03-07T20:35:29.276Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Or we might say that there could be sub interactions within an interaction it's we need to I don't know of any of that is actually helpful in understanding how this works because it feels if we loosen it up so much that it just feels like anybody can play any role at any time during any interaction.
[2023-03-07T20:35:45.153Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: What is because I have a hard time like let's send a holder and basically what you explain is if I'm a holder and I'm calling an endpoint on a verifier service automatically become a verifier in that moment but I would argue that I'm still a holder.
[2023-03-07T20:35:45.390Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  I'm just.
[2023-03-07T20:36:10.141Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	hmm, don't think that what Joe said is correct?
[2023-03-07T20:36:22.030Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: There's no end point on the verifier service at the holder can access so you would actually go through a verifier coordinator which would be running your business rules your logic right so the reason these roles are separated is so that we can model some notion of security and privacy right so what we used to have public and private as a way to describe these apis and that got really complicated the I think I.
[2023-03-07T20:36:22.324Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  think there is an irreducible problem here.
[2023-03-07T20:36:54.132Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: That we are creating an ecosystem where anyone can do anything anyone could play any of the roles no one has a privileged status so we're not in a situation like we have with the two-party Dynamic with OS where you're deferring to another party and and and people can say okay that's that guy and that's this guy and that for this interaction that we know what all that is I think it's that you know anyone on the soccer field can be a ref and that's weird.
[2023-03-07T20:36:54.652Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  because we don't normally model our social interactions.
[2023-03-07T20:37:00.699Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-03-07T20:37:30.930Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep plus one did that Joey said something though that I was like oh I don't know if that's quite right you said you know if you're a holder coordinator and you need to verify something you're going to call a verifier coordinator to actually call the verifier service and I you know looking at the way the codes put together today that's not I don't that's not what happens right it's your holder coordinator and you call a verifier service directly you don't go through a coordinator to do it.
[2023-03-07T20:37:31.367Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  in that maybe.
[2023-03-07T20:37:46.869Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep yep yep yep yeah I okay good so I get that yep.
[2023-03-07T20:37:57.774Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So your coordinator is calling it and I would argue that in that role in that action that they are acting as a verifier coordinator talking to the verifier service because of the permissioning things right like the service is not an open end point to the public it's presumably secured via business relationship with the verifier coordinator who right has an sas relationship or at least that's one of the models that.
[2023-03-07T20:37:58.084Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  that we are intentionally supporting.
[2023-03-07T20:38:28.339Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep well you're saying the holder coordinator basically in the middle of something the holder receives let's say a verifiable presentation and needs to verify it like they need they need to verify it in that instance this whatever color this is yellowish gold whatever need to pick a different color they become green in effectively become this thing.
[2023-03-07T20:38:28.709Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  thing that calls the bear.
[2023-03-07T20:38:43.257Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Our service and then once they're done with that they turn yellow again in continue on with their business rules is that what you're saying what is one way to visualize mhm.
[2023-03-07T20:39:01.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Sure for some notion of a and and becoming I mean my sense is the actual code that's doing most of the holders Yeoman work is not the code that is going to call the verifier there's going to be another function or method and that method is doing the verifier coordinator role the fact that it's doesn't need to be in a separate server it doesn't.
[2023-03-07T20:39:01.921Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  have to be in a separate.
[2023-03-07T20:39:10.449Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Container doesn't have to be isolated at all yeah because we're not saying anything about how the components are structured.
[2023-03-07T20:39:19.378Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: It's about the the role of the coordinator is to apply the business rules for that service.
[2023-03-07T20:39:37.019Z]	<Dave_Longley>	q?
[2023-03-07T20:39:49.010Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: And so if if you are authorized by a verifier service to interact with it and you are driving it using business rules then by definition you are acting as a verifier coordinator cool.
[2023-03-07T20:39:50.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep okay gives me some ideas on a different diagram style that we could try but I'm going to play around with it because it's still a bit fuzzy in my head Dave you're up.
[2023-03-07T20:39:52.073Z]	<Phil-T3>	q+
[2023-03-07T20:40:16.655Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I don't know how much chaos this would cause but sort of the way that we talk about this is such that any party if we remove the roles from any of this and we just say there's a party out there that any party has sort of its own internal could have its own internal issuer coordinator verifier coordinator and holder coordinator and they they lean on each one of those pieces of software whenever they need to play any one of those three roles.
[2023-03-07T20:40:16.984Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  and so.
[2023-03-07T20:40:49.804Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: While some interaction is happening which might have sub interactions in it they are choosing the right piece of software to work with so you know if you're if they start out as a holder and they're receiving credentials from some issues some other party who's starting out as an issuer and there that other parties using their issue or coordinator sending credentials to the to the holder the person who's acting as they yellow box when they receive those they might switch.
[2023-03-07T20:40:50.223Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  which over and act on using their own internal.
[2023-03-07T20:40:56.670Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Verify that before they continue on in their interaction with that other issuer.
[2023-03-07T20:41:19.591Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah so okay well how about this if skin II have an idea on how we might be able to represent that but I'll play around with that if anybody else wants to play around with different diagrams that Express what we're trying to express please do.
[2023-03-07T20:41:37.184Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah the other thing I want to point out is that also emphasizes how independent each one of these parties are and how there is no overall control structure coming from any particular party asserting its authority over any other party everyone is equal which is fundamentally different from the two-party systems that are specced out in like oauth.
[2023-03-07T20:42:02.476Z]	<Dave_Longley>	everyone is a "peer" with 3 possible roles to play at any time
[2023-03-07T20:42:06.897Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep that's one of that okay we have 19 minutes left Joe brought up a good thing we should dive into at the beginning of the call which is what makes a exchange and point different from just calling an issuer issue endpoint or verifying Point by itself I think Joe Maybe please.
[2023-03-07T20:42:20.858Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: VC API Exchanges
[2023-03-07T20:42:33.419Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yet sure slight slight variant is that I'm I asked a question about other than managing the creation or invoking an exchange right so I understand that there's there are things called exchanges and we're going to give you some apis to set them up and use them Etc but I ask the question is there is there functionality that other than that that requires me to use an exchange or is the exchange.
[2023-03-07T20:42:52.037Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Just a Gateway that can make these capability URLs make these shortcuts that make it easier to access other functionality that is also represented in other apis and I think the answer is no there's some functionality that doesn't that is not accessible except through an exchange.
[2023-03-07T20:43:01.517Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Now it's Phil I'm so sorry I didn't see you on the Q you probably could for the last topic so please feel free to.
[2023-03-07T20:43:07.357Z]	<Transcriber>	PL/T3_ASU: Perhaps the response to Joe would be appropriate I was going to speak to the previous topic so.
[2023-03-07T20:43:09.822Z]	<Transcriber>	PL/T3_ASU: However you want to take it.
[2023-03-07T20:43:14.692Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead let's get your you in there and then.
[2023-03-07T20:43:40.706Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_Jr_(via_iPhone)>	present+
[2023-03-07T20:43:42.745Z]	<Transcriber>	PL/T3_ASU: The question I had was it sounded to me like the discretion is that there is effectively a a coordinator role for the holder as well because the holder is going to have certain business rules if you will with respect to what credentials they wish to show just particular entities etcetera that might be applicable in any given interaction and I'm just wondering if I'm speaking.
[2023-03-07T20:43:43.051Z]	<Transcriber>	PL/T3_ASU:  to what day was just saying it's.
[2023-03-07T20:44:04.064Z]	<Transcriber>	PL/T3_ASU: It emphasizes the commonality and full representation of responsibilities and roles that all three parties have and share so I just it seemed like that was a missing component from the holders drawing.
[2023-03-07T20:44:05.254Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	fwiw, there is a holder coordinator in the diagram
[2023-03-07T20:44:30.735Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Plus 12 that you're getting a bunch of thumbs up so okay yep so noted seeing lots of agreement so thank you for that alright joke going back to what you mentioned can you summarize in two sentences just get the thread back.
[2023-03-07T20:44:34.366Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-03-07T20:44:38.190Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Sure which what functionality exposed by the VC API requires that I use an exchange.
[2023-03-07T20:44:40.665Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack phil
[2023-03-07T20:45:10.102Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So the one thing I can think of in Long leap feel free to chime in here it there is extra functionality there is extra data that's in that exchanges endpoint or that was used to set up the exchanges and point that does not exist in the Pure issuer or pure it in the issuer service or the verifier service for the pure verify or the pure issue calls.
[2023-03-07T20:45:10.431Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  and that's what I was trying to speak to when I.
[2023-03-07T20:45:42.971Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack patrick
[2023-03-07T20:45:44.561Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: A deer these kind of two stages that you go through when you set up an exchange you go through kind of a configuration of the exchange where you configure it with all the business rules that go into the exchange and then you get an endpoint that will execute upon those business rules you do not do that for the bear issue or service issue credential endpoint or the verifier service verify and point Patrick you're up next and then.
[2023-03-07T20:45:59.234Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Would that include let's say in my credential I want to support status you know like a credential status would that include singing out the infrastructure to sell it to publish lists in or does is that like totally outside of the VC API.
[2023-03-07T20:45:59.477Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  that's my question.
[2023-03-07T20:46:06.083Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Dave I'll put myself on the uterus.
[2023-03-07T20:46:34.369Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah so my quick answer to Patrick is when configuring an exchanger you would give it the capabilities that needs to communicate with like an issuing endpoint that issuing endpoint that issuing service would be able to would manage whatever credential status lists you've set up so that in total the process would be you configure some issuing instance to work with a credential.
[2023-03-07T20:46:34.819Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  Otis list.
[2023-03-07T20:47:07.578Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Multiple lists potentially then you would configure an exchanger and point to be able to communicate with that issuing service to perform issuance then you would create an exchange based on that exchanger configuration for particular interaction for a particular user what I got on the cue to say was plus 1 what Mona said in the the other piece I would add to this is that the exchanges API enables you to.
[2023-03-07T20:47:08.061Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  get into sort of a get into a different protocol where.
[2023-03-07T20:47:18.284Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Across trust boundaries whether rather than within them and that was the other thing that we highlighted out of the last call is being important.
[2023-03-07T20:47:19.961Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-03-07T20:47:21.968Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack joe
[2023-03-07T20:47:24.315Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Joe.
[2023-03-07T20:47:53.076Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah so I think I understand what both you and Dave said but it still didn't answer the question I understand how were using exchanges to simplify these cross stress boundary interactions by pre setting up a bunch of parameters what I heard you say man it was in effect that there are parameters that the exchange and point can manage that the direct and points cannot.
[2023-03-07T20:47:56.831Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So what's the functionality.
[2023-03-07T20:48:00.594Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Would be prevented if I didn't want to use exchanges.
[2023-03-07T20:48:03.875Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-03-07T20:48:14.582Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: One of the check the queue one of the things that you would not be able to do if you didn't use exchanges is configure.
[2023-03-07T20:48:45.494Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Multi-step flows so someone hits this exchange they you request a very specific type of credential they respond back with a very specific type of credential and then you check the credential and then you say okay everything checked out the next step in the process is go to this next interaction Point like all of that stuff that I just outlined is something that the exchanges and points are meant to coordinate in do.
[2023-03-07T20:48:45.901Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  in his name.
[2023-03-07T20:48:50.923Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Functionality that the verifier or issuer endpoints have.
[2023-03-07T20:49:22.085Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So so with respect to managing an exchange I agree with you I get that but I can as a issuer coordinator respond with an interact value and tell the caller what to do next in that process so I believe that the the Raw Back and Forth with the endpoints can Implement under the guidance of a controller who's in charge.
[2023-03-07T20:49:22.412Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  the business rules about.
[2023-03-07T20:49:35.337Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: How these photos have to happen that they can in fact use the interact mechanism to tell the user to go to this next step in the process without having registered that with any Exchange.
[2023-03-07T20:49:45.728Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah I guess the thing I'm tripping over is I think you just explained what an exchange does.
[2023-03-07T20:50:11.292Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: No no I'm talking about a function on the coordinator that is the business rules that the person who's writing this applications doing you're talking about setting up an exchange that can automate those business rules and that's fine but what I'm seeking is that the things it's automating our of the VC API set and that anything I could do through an exchange I could also manually do through the parameters in the normal apis.
[2023-03-07T20:50:11.511Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  and woods.
[2023-03-07T20:50:13.650Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Interesting Dave Europe.
[2023-03-07T20:50:44.243Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I would say that one of the potential problems there Joe would be that the client might not know how what protocol to speak or how to communicate with those endpoints so if you just dropped an interact and point on a on a client if you include type information about how to interact with that endpoint they'll know what to do with it but if you don't then they won't know what to do and one type of interaction is defined.
[2023-03-07T20:50:44.729Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  through using the exchange on point.
[2023-03-07T20:51:18.339Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Or we in the spec today and you know we might still need to tweak it a little bit but there is a there's a simple protocol that's defined for how what the Met what messages you need to send and how what what you're going to get in return When you communicate with these URLs and that that gives clients something to do to that they know how to process to ultimately wind up for example with a verifiable presentation that has credentials in it at the end of the day.
[2023-03-07T20:51:39.554Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Sir but isn't that what you just said is it sometimes their interact Fields will have types that people won't understand I mean I think that's always going to be true if you're going to have that as a form of extensibility.
[2023-03-07T20:52:03.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Sure and what I'm saying is I think the exchanges defines one slit one such type and so it provides a type and and days a protocol that people can Implement against whereas it's certainly true that the coordinator at any time could just send you an interact filled with some other type that could happen and it wouldn't have to be bound to exchanges in any way but this exchanges feature in the spec says here's one way to do it that will get through flows common flows from picking up theses.
[2023-03-07T20:52:29.761Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Right so so I've got an interface here and exchanges that will let me do you know it will let me expose some complicated functions through a simple capability URL and it will do some of the heavy lifting in terms of what's the flow about all of that but the flow of which it is coordinating not as a coordinator let me use the word conductor this exchange is conducting this flow and I mean that like a symphonic or Jazz conductor.
[2023-03-07T20:52:48.326Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Are conducting operations on the rest of the API is what I'm trying to get confirmation that that's the architecture that there isn't a functionality that the exchanges magically have access to that you have to go through an exchange for other than the conducting roll.
[2023-03-07T20:53:17.784Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I think that's true just to be clear the way they were we want to I think that we want to spec out exchanges is also such that these endpoints allow for multiple standardized protocols for delivery of credentials now that doesn't mean that some other credentials some other URL that doesn't say the word exchange on it couldn't be used to accomplish that same thing but I think we need a place in the spec to hang this on and say.
[2023-03-07T20:53:39.122Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: When when when someone comes to an issuer coordinator to pick up some VCS and you need to start Crossing trust boundaries this is a way you can do it you set up this exchange and now you can speak whatever protocol you have in common with the client that the users using.
[2023-03-07T20:53:46.881Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So that that last bit is where I worry about feature creep.
[2023-03-07T20:54:04.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I guess I feel pretty good about your opening response by the way Dave so I just want to acknowledge that I don't feel like we're still arguing over fine details but it has shifted my attention to this notion that it seems like you're defining.
[2023-03-07T20:54:37.334Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Try and frame it in the positive way but it seems like you're defining an extension point but we haven't been calling it that and maybe that's why it feels like feature creep because it's an extension point because you're saying you want exchanges to be able to through the back end that because someone programmed it that way satisfy the capability URL through other apis right now V Capi.
[2023-03-07T20:54:37.653Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  am I understanding that right.
[2023-03-07T20:55:08.810Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I think you are right I think I think what we can say is the in exchange always provides the VC API and we might want to in this spec say and you can there is an extension Point here where you can have that same stateful information and flow and everything that you backed in your exchange you could expose that through another protocol and we because of oh I DC for VC is popular right now.
[2023-03-07T20:55:09.145Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  now we could Define.
[2023-03-07T20:55:17.923Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: You know that that really is the only other delivery mechanism out there right now we could Define and say this is where you can do that.
[2023-03-07T20:55:19.490Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Some people liked it calm.
[2023-03-07T20:55:22.849Z]	<Phil-T3>	@joe - you're correct that there is a Coordinator for the Holder in the drawing. I for some reason wasn't seeing as I wasn't hearing Holder being discussed as having business rules they would express in the same way as the issuer or verifier.  Thanks for correcting my mis-read of the drawing.
[2023-03-07T20:55:41.687Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: That is well sure and we've talked about that in this in these meetings as well as saying you could this is also where you can this is the extension point but it's also the compatibility point where the BCA the rest of the VC API can connect up to other protocols for the actual delivery of VCS to the users client.
[2023-03-07T20:55:58.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Okay cool I really like that I think maybe that shift in language and helps me a lot that one of the things exchanges do is they let you construct flows that flow over the VC API and that it's an extension point for flows that maybe need to integrate other protocols.
[2023-03-07T20:56:09.718Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes absolutely we need to good the transcriber got that hopefully you can convert that into attacked.
[2023-03-07T20:56:20.058Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah cuz every time you mention like oid for VC I'm like feature creep what are we doing this is where different protocol but when you call it the extension point it feels much more tractable and I sort of understand its boundaries better.
[2023-03-07T20:56:50.548Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Great awesome all right with that lots of at least two thumbs up so that it'll add mine feels like we got somewhere today that's good we do need to convert this into spec text may be premature for that I'll put a continuation of this discussion on the agenda for next week just in case anyone has any aha moments over the next week and so next week let's.
[2023-03-07T20:56:50.877Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  try and.
[2023-03-07T20:57:05.266Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Home in on some concrete text that we might be able to put into the spec that explains what the exchanges are right.
[2023-03-07T20:57:06.650Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: May I comment on one takeaway.
[2023-03-07T20:57:23.263Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Now that I'm hearing this notion of exchanges there probably is an exchanger as a component in that diagram that each party may choose to use.
[2023-03-07T20:57:35.304Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Right so there's probably the holder has an exchanger the verifier has an exchanger as an option architecture Ali to automate some of these flows.
[2023-03-07T20:57:39.739Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Got it Patrick Europe.
[2023-03-07T20:57:40.111Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-03-07T20:57:44.156Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Would that be an exchange service or more in exchange component.
[2023-03-07T20:58:04.721Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah I chose exchanger because I like the bounce between here's a service and the coordinator drives a service at maybe it's service but I was trying to avoid that so that service was more about those fundamental roles of verifying an issuing and holding.
[2023-03-07T20:58:23.026Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: In in our implementation we have the concept of an exchanger that is its actualized on a service and so it goes it takes an exchange through some pre setup flow and you can create as many of these exchanges as you want to so they're very much fits with what Joe saying.
[2023-03-07T20:58:28.713Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: And does your exchanger have sort of its own API routes predefined based on your exchange at you offer.
[2023-03-07T20:58:43.856Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So what we have now is you just you can create an exchanger with a configuration and that configuration defines all the things that it needs to be able to do and then you create an instance of an exchange off of that exchanger that yep.
[2023-03-07T20:59:15.790Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right we're at time thanks everyone for the the great discussion again I feel like we made some really good progress today we will continue with this discussion next week try to focus on some spec text we can write around it noting that John you may have something to show us next week or the week after no rush again in Patrick there's that demo thing that you're you also mentioned that.
[2023-03-07T20:59:16.159Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  that we want to take a look at so just ping me.
[2023-03-07T20:59:30.426Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um if you know and I can put it on the agenda and if not we can always just add it to the agenda at the beginning of the call all right with that thanks everyone have a wonderful rest of your week and we will chat again next week.

