Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords and ccgbot and ccgbot for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-04-02/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-04-02/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-04-02.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2024-04-02

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Apr&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords and ccgbot and ccgbot
Present:
  Jeff O - HumanOS, Harrison Tang, Benjamin Young, Erica Connell, 
  Joe Andrieu, Alex H, Bob Wyman, Jennie M, Nis Jespersen , pauld 
  gs1, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Vanessa, 
  Julien Fraichot, Manu Sporny, Rashmi Siravara, Will, Kaliya 
  Young, Leo, David I. Lehn, James Chartrand, Robbie Jones

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: Hello everyone uh welcome to this week's uh W3 ccg 
  meeting uh today uh we are excited to have Benjamin Yuen.
Harrison_Tang: DC verifiable credentials test Suite uh but before 
  we get to the main agenda uh just want to go over some 
  administrative stuff.
Harrison_Tang: So first of all just a quick reminder on the call 
  of ethics and professional Honda just want to make sure we have a 
  constructive uh respectful uh comments and conversations.
Harrison_Tang: Now a quick uh note on the intellectual property 
  uh anyone can participate in these calls Harvard or substantive 
  contributions to any ccg work items must be members of the ccg 
  with 4 IP agreements signed.
Harrison_Tang:  so if.
Harrison_Tang: You don't have.
Harrison_Tang: Have a w3c account or encounter some issues uh or 
  have any questions uh feel free to reach out to any of the 
  cultures.
Harrison_Tang: A quick note on the code notes uh these meetings 
  are being automatically recorded and transcribed uh we will try 
  to publish uh these uh meeting minutes and uh audio and video 
  recordings in the next uh.
Harrison_Tang: 4 to 48 hours.
Harrison_Tang: Uh we use GT chat to cue the speakers during the 
  call.
Harrison_Tang: Uh so you can type in Q Plus to add yourself to 
  the queue or cue minus to remove and you can type in Q question 
  mark to see who is in the cube.
Harrison_Tang: All right uh.
Harrison_Tang: Quick notes on the introductions and 
  reintroductions so if you're new to the community or you haven't 
  been engaged uh with the community and want to re-engage uh feel 
  free to just unmute and introduce yourself.
Harrison_Tang: All right well very well coming to all new members 
  so uh whenever you feel not as shy uh and want to introduce just 
  uh type in Q Plus and I'll call you uh.
Harrison_Tang:  when you're.
Harrison_Tang: All right next uh announcements and reminders uh 
  any announcements and or reminders.
Manu Sporny:  Yep just uh 2 things uh so the first item is that 
  the BBS cryptography Suite that this.
Manu Sporny: 
  https://github.com/w3c/transitions/issues/594#issuecomment-2030180147
Manu Sporny: https://w3c.github.io/vc-di-bbs/CR/2024-04-04/
Manu Sporny:  Community worked on uh has been approved to enter 
  into the candidate recommendation phase at the worldwide Web 
  Consortium that basically means like we are done from a design 
  standpoint and an implementation standpoint I just put 2 links to 
  the transition approval and the document that will be published 
  uh as an official candidate recommendation tomorrow uh wait is 
  if.
Manu Sporny:   It's today.
Manu Sporny:  Sorry Thursday I'm getting mixed up on my dates um 
  so this will go out on Thursday published as a w3c uh proposed uh 
  recommendation um the other thing um is that uh if you are a w3c 
  uh member um there is a um uh uh a vote um so rdf data set 
  canonicalization uh went to uh proposed recommendation so that is 
  the step that's the phase after.
Manu Sporny:  Candidate recommendation proposed recommendation is 
  when it goes to all 450 plus member organizations at w3c uh for 
  an official vote um that uh.
Manu Sporny:  Uh vote uh went out I think a week uh or so ago um 
  there is a um uh a voting page that I will get a link to um sorry 
  1 second uh.
Manu Sporny: https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/33280/rdf-canon-pr/
Manu Sporny:  Link address so in the um chat Channel there's the 
  voting link uh for approval of the rdf data set canonicalization 
  algorithm that thing is used to digitally sign verifiable 
  credentials um for that are protected using data Integrity so 
  that is a a very important uh piece of uh the puzzle if you're a 
  w3c member please go in and uh vote um uh uh on it um the vote is 
  open until the.
Manu Sporny:  23Rd of April um so a couple more weeks um 2 is 3 
  ish more weeks uh open um once we get enough votes then uh it is 
  transition to a global standard so if you're a w3c member uh 
  please take this time to go and vote uh in favor of it uh if uh 
  you like verifiable credentials and data integrity and that kind 
  of stuff.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you man.
Harrison_Tang: Any other announcements or reminders.
Harrison_Tang: So a quick uh preview of of what's coming so next 
  Tuesday uh we have uh someone from Summer protocols uh to talk 
  about uh their initiatives there and then the week after the week 
  of uh on on April 16th will.
Harrison_Tang:  skip the.
Harrison_Tang: Ccg meaning because uh that week we have uh 
  internet identity Workshop.
Harrison_Tang: And then the week after that on April 23rd uh we 
  actually have a on door 1 of the cultures of decentralized web 
  know to actually talk about the latest uh initiative and work 
  items in the dwn.
Harrison_Tang: And then the week after on April 30th uh will will 
  lead a discussion on the ccg roll back.
Harrison_Tang: All right so that's uh what's coming in the rest 
  of the April and uh I guess uh that goes to the another reminder 
  is the internet identity Workshop will happen uh during the week 
  of uh April 16th so uh.
Harrison_Tang: Again you have you have if you haven't signed up 
  uh please do and uh for that week uh we will skip the ccg 
  meeting.
Harrison_Tang: Any other announcements or work in mind reminders.
Harrison_Tang: Uh by the way just a quick note uh I also saw a 
  note that the implemented draft for the open ID verifiable 
  credential issuance has been uh approved so uh.
Harrison_Tang:  you know.
Harrison_Tang: So yeah if you're curious you can uh uh go there 
  and then the look at the draft.
Harrison_Tang: That was a major Milestone so just saw that in 1 
  of the email threats.
Harrison_Tang: All right uh.
Harrison_Tang:  what guy.
Harrison_Tang: Uh any updates or questions on the upwork items.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/247
Harrison_Tang: So there's a new work items in regards to the the 
  ethereum signature uh so that has been uh submitted and multiple 
  people and organizations have uh supported it so I uh moved that 
  to approve work items for the ccg and uh here's the link to that 
  particular.
Harrison_Tang: Uh work items so if you have any questions or 
  comments uh feel free to just just uh go to the link but uh we 
  had that presentation uh I think uh a week or 2 weeks ago 2 weeks 
  ago and uh that was.
Harrison_Tang:  uh quite.
Harrison_Tang: Um by Andreas and uh.
Harrison_Tang: So there's a new work item that that has been 
  submitted.
Harrison_Tang: Money of course.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah yeah I mean if it's approved then um the next 
  step is to move it into the ccg which I'm happy to kind of 
  initiate that transfer and then you know we start working on it 
  meaning the people that are interested in that um specification 
  start working on it.
Harrison_Tang: All right any other questions or comments.
Harrison_Tang: All right so let's get to the main agenda so uh we 
  got Benjamin uh from the digital Bazaar actually presenting and 
  you know leading a discussion on the VC test Suite so Benjamin uh 
  the floor is yours.
Benjamin Young:  Thank you Harrison um hello everybody I'm 
  Benjamin Yuen with digital bizarre and um a w3c veteran for about 
  10 years um we may have crossed paths or or maybe not um was part 
  of the web annotation working group back in the day web 
  publishing and I'm currently chair of the Json LD working group 
  um consequently test Suites at the w3c have been something I've 
  worked on for a while now and I want to show you where we're at 
  with the.
Benjamin Young:  Suites for the verifiable credentials working 
  group as well as the ones in flight for the ccg.
Benjamin Young:  And that will tempt State and try and present 
  here.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Benjamin Young:   So the de.
Benjamin Young:  Velopment of the test Suite.
Benjamin Young:  To happen towards the end of a working group's 
  life cycle.
Benjamin Young:  Because the specs move around so much.
Benjamin Young:  Prior to that these test Suites are not just um 
  unit tests for some implementation or and implementation but 
  they're actually meant to validate that.
Benjamin Young:  Specification language is um both itself 
  testable.
Benjamin Young:  And then that implementers have been able to 
  implement it bypassing those tests so.
Benjamin Young:  Um in this list and the ones that digital 
  bizarre is contributing to our.
Benjamin Young:   Focused on.
Benjamin Young:  Must statements into um the test data so that 
  you can move between the 2 Worlds and validate that the the 
  surrounding spect text is also being implemented when you're 
  hopefully going through these test Suites and updating your 
  implementations to to match the latest test Suites.
Benjamin Young:   So this.
Benjamin Young:  WG test Suites again the digital bizaar is 
  focused on creating.
Benjamin Young:  Um that includes the core data model and then uh 
  for.
Benjamin Young:  Integrity related test Suites.
Benjamin Young:   All of.
Benjamin Young:  Currently configured through this uh VC test 
  Suite implementations repository which will take a look at later.
Benjamin Young:  That holds uh implementation configuration files 
  that basically tell uh the runner which runs every Sunday night.
Benjamin Young:   What in.
Benjamin Young:  Points to hit.
Benjamin Young:  Um authentication scheme.
Benjamin Young:  Whether that's oath to or zaps um or something 
  else zaps in a lot fewer than ones that we support currently.
Benjamin Young:  The Runner every Sunday then we'll go through 
  each of these test Suites.
Benjamin Young:   Um use that.
Benjamin Young:  That implementation data.
Benjamin Young:  And then generate HTML reports from each of 
  these test Suites.
Benjamin Young:  Because of the movement in the specifications 
  for the last several months um none of these should really quite 
  be considered done um the closest 1 to complete would be the 
  ecdsa test Suite um but we're hoping to get them all.
Benjamin Young:   Wrapped up.
Benjamin Young:  Uh final implementation review in the next month 
  or so um they are however all currently usable and uh we do 
  invite everyone to especially on this call to work to wire in 
  their implementations um we'll take a look in a minute at local 
  configuration for testing stuff on local host or um testing 
  something you're not ready to publish but if you already have a 
  spec or if you already have an implementation you believe is 
  compliant with any of the specifications seen here or on the next 
  slide um you can go ahead into this repository and um create some 
  Json that Maps your implementation endpoints into the.
Benjamin Young:  The test Runner essentially.
Benjamin Young:  This is the community group list of tests um 
  again the Debbie that digital Bazaar is working toward these are 
  currently lower priority as they're not in the way of spec 
  Publications at present um but we have tried to model them on the 
  same process and.
Benjamin Young:   Uh the same.
Benjamin Young:  Json format for the implementation.
Benjamin Young:  Same runner system and Publishing process in 
  hopes that we can receive other contributions and it's an easy 
  thing for people to to participate in both in terms of setting up 
  their implementation.
Benjamin Young:   Testing it and then.
Benjamin Young:  Adding or iterating on test.
Benjamin Young:  So you'll see um.
Benjamin Young:  Bit string status list is in this uh the core 
  this is actually a shared Library I copy and pasted that 
  accidentally um it's used in the other data Integrity tests 
  earlier.
Benjamin Young:   And then.
Benjamin Young:  PC API endpoints and uh the VC refresh stuff um.
Benjamin Young:  Are likely many more to come in the community 
  group as the community group takes on new.
Benjamin Young:   New tasks and new.
Benjamin Young:  Specifications we hope to be starting.
Benjamin Young:  These test Suite earlier in the process.
Benjamin Young:  So that they can tag along with the spec and 
  that we don't have to like catch up um towards the end of the 
  process after it moves to the ewg.
Benjamin Young:  Core hope being.
Benjamin Young:  Not only is just part of the process but part of 
  the the whole process and not just the end of the process.
Benjamin Young:  The local config file that you can create to 
  wire up an implementation um contains essentially the Json format 
  that you can publish to that implementations repo.
Benjamin Young:   That says you.
Benjamin Young:  Who the vendor or supplier.
Benjamin Young:  Of this implementation.
Benjamin Young:  Um what the name of the implementation is where 
  you can find out more about it and then contains keys for issuers 
  verifiers VC holders VP holders um and we'll look at some of that 
  documentation in a little bit.
Benjamin Young:  And then those implementations are further 
  tagged with what specifications.
Benjamin Young:   You want.
Benjamin Young:   At that.
Benjamin Young:  Point so you can.
Benjamin Young:  This endpoint is for um the VC 2.0 data model 
  test Suite only or it does the VC 2.0 test Suite data model stuff 
  and ecdsa.
Benjamin Young:  DDD essay and you can tag each of these um.
Benjamin Young:  So if you have.
Benjamin Young:  You know some production.
Benjamin Young:  Ations that you want to tag with certain things.
Benjamin Young:   And then Q&A or early stage stuff you can tag 
  those separately um and if you needed you could.
Benjamin Young:  Have multiple implementations.
Benjamin Young:  So a setting.
Benjamin Young:  Your local environment so that you're not 
  testing everybody's stuff um out the gate and instead able to 
  tune what and when you test things um locally.
Benjamin Young:  Each of these test Suites output a report that's 
  in HTML follows w3c standard uh designs for these sorts of things 
  um and then there's a table comparing the must statements with 
  who's passing them failures get a red X skips get a a gray box 
  and in addition to what you see here there's also some listed for 
  interop those are additional tests that um.
Benjamin Young:   Not only after.
Benjamin Young:  These must statements have been.
Benjamin Young:  Tested but in addition to that we do interop 
  tests where we move the same.
Benjamin Young:   Sort of.
Benjamin Young:  Um each of the implementations back and forth to 
  see if they can uh cross validate and um do certain handshake 
  steps together depending on the depending on the test Suite being 
  run.
Benjamin Young:  And that oops.
Benjamin Young:   1 Second.
Benjamin Young:  That back here is what you can disable so you 
  don't have to be doing full interrupt testing all the time.
Benjamin Young:  The other thing I wanted to mention was 
  something we emailed out a couple.
Benjamin Young:   Weeks ago.
Benjamin Young:  Um can I vc.com.
Benjamin Young:  Uh is an attempt to aggregate the data around 
  all of these um test Suites because each of I'm going to go back 
  a slide each of these test Suite reports um basically sit 
  parallel to the specification that they're for um which is great 
  for w3c process but if you're trying to understand.
Benjamin Young:   Which thing.
Benjamin Young:  Use to you know to create Voltron um you you may 
  not be able to see the forest for the trees so um we've started 
  aggregating that data and creating what we hope becomes something 
  like a can I use.com site for the verifiable credentials 
  ecosystem.
Benjamin Young:  Um and before I head into the repos are there 
  any questions about any of this or.
Benjamin Young:  Basic idea that we're.
Benjamin Young:   Looking at.
Benjamin Young:  All right let me.
Benjamin Young:  You know our presentation mode.
Benjamin Young:  Um as mentioned the VC implementations repo and 
  there's 1 in the ccg that sits parallel to the 1 in the w3c OR.
Benjamin Young:  Um and back on the slide deck uh I'll make all 
  these links and share this deck out um with the mailing list.
Benjamin Young:  W3c org has all the main um working group 
  repositories and then the ccg has its own organization on GitHub 
  where those test Suites lift just to make that a little clearer.
Benjamin Young:  So the implementation format um as I mentioned 
  has tagging for which.
Benjamin Young:  Implementation you want to test you can see this 
  demo here has issuer an issuer endpoint and a verifier endpoint 
  uh they've both been tagged to do ecdsa um rdfc 2019 tests and 
  they're using a particular key.
Benjamin Young:  And that's all fully described in here and again 
  your local implementation.
Benjamin Young:  When you get started um.
Benjamin Young:  Will look very similar to that.
Benjamin Young:  The hope is that you can start locally test 
  whichever specifications you need to as you develop either on a 
  QA environment or on your local machine and then have something 
  you can copy and paste essentially into that implementation space 
  in order to get um your stuff tested.
Benjamin Young:  Every Sunday as I said um the tags that work in 
  the different spaces are in their readme on these implementation 
  reports so the w3c ones map to the specifications mentioned the 
  VC 2.0 um Ed.
Benjamin Young:  Ecdsa and ecdsa SD.
Benjamin Young:  And eddsa um are all tagged appropriately ecdsa 
  does have a few more uh configuration knobs and dials the ccg 
  version of this has a similar tag section but with tags for those 
  specifications.
Benjamin Young:   Um 1.
Benjamin Young:  Key thing to point out when you're wiring this 
  up the.
Benjamin Young:  Trying to find where they're read read me States 
  this um.
Benjamin Young:   Is expected to be.
Benjamin Young:  A very minimal.
Benjamin Young:  Dapi HTTP set of endpoints.
Benjamin Young:  And it's essentially just passing in a test 
  Vector material.
Benjamin Young:  Minus some options depending on which test Suite 
  you're in.
Benjamin Young:  And that HTTP endpoint can then wrap.
Benjamin Young:  Whatever you're testing be it a crypto Suite or 
  a a non VC API um endpoint that can handle.
Benjamin Young:  Um and Gregg Bernstein in uh the community group 
  has created a.
Benjamin Young:  A sample um minimal expressjs http.
Benjamin Young:  Server environment for testing his 
  implementations and share that publicly as a way to quickly get 
  started if you have uh crypto Suites or a status list 
  implementation or any of this and so we'll be we'll be revisiting 
  um.
Benjamin Young:  Path smoother as well but right now it's 
  essentially just a handful of endpoints either that your um 
  implementation already supports or if it doesn't it's very 
  minimal um server code JavaScript python Etc to relay the stuff 
  to your endpoints and back.
Benjamin Young:  And I'll show you 1 of the full reports this is 
  the 1 that I showed a screenshot of earlier.
Benjamin Young:  Each of them.
Benjamin Young:  Very familiar w3c.
Benjamin Young:  What's being tested whether that's issuers um 
  verifiers and then there are the interop tests that I mentioned 
  where keys go back and or not keys but credential data test 
  vectors are moved back and forth between implementations and you 
  can work to find the overlap for where things are compatible or 
  not and then dig into some of the reasons for why they may not 
  be.
Benjamin Young:  Any other questions.
Benjamin Young:  Jordan sweet I guess um all these test Suites 
  are uh BSD licensed as per w3c process and Ken and I we hope will 
  be contributed to by more folks in the in the working group and 
  the community group so feel free to dive into these for 
  implementation as well as for critique and contribution uh 1 last 
  note for me we do have the tests we office hours that we've been 
  running every 2 weeks if you are looking to implement or if 
  you've started to and you've hit some snags that's a great time 
  to get a hold of myself and the team at digital Bazaar who are 
  developing these tests weeks.
Benjamin Young:  We do those uh fortnightly um on Wednesdays so 
  our next 1 is tomorrow at 10:00 am Eastern Time.
Benjamin Young:  We'd love to have you come and I'll I'll email 
  the ccg and WG about that later today.
Benjamin Young:  And thank you Harrison for this time.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you Benjamin uh any questions.
Harrison_Tang: So a quick question um Benjamin is uh I saw that 
  there's a test uh suite for the data model and then the data 
  Integrity stuff like are there anything else like we should add 
  test switch to or like this actually covers pretty much 
  everything.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Benjamin Young:  Not even a handful there's maybe 2 or 3 that do 
  not yet have test Suites from us that they still may exist um I 
  believe Josie cozy folks have started a test suite and I believe 
  there was also a traceability test suite and then there are a 
  handful of others for some other ccg specs um I'd be more than 
  happy to collaborate with anybody working on those um we 
  obviously have a lot of experience doing this and have a pretty 
  consistent test Runner environment that's set up again that runs 
  on Sunday mornings and generates these mocha based test reports 
  um so if if anyone is contributing to a spec that they're like I 
  don't know that we have tests yet um please come to the office 
  hours tomorrow and let's talk about that and see how we might 
  help jumpstart you with some of the material we already have.
Benjamin Young:  We we do as a group need all of those things 
  tested.
Benjamin Young:  We've just been focusing on the ones we know 
  best um and can write tests for the fastest but um it is part of 
  the process.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I think the other thing worth mentioning is um 
  the test Suites are being built in a way I mean they're they're 
  very modular right I mean they're meant to test you know there's 
  4 each spec that goes through the standardization process a w3c 
  there's supposed to be a matching test Suite um that's just a 
  part of the w3c process um the extra stuff that we're doing as 
  Benjamin said is like making this like a weekly thing usually 
  usually the process is just like just test it once and if you can 
  demonstrate that at least to implementations implemented every 
  feature in the specification like you're done and then what ends 
  up happening is like these things are never tested after that and 
  then you have like.
Manu Sporny:   Uh implement.
Manu Sporny:  And all that.
Manu Sporny:  Kind of stuff.
Manu Sporny:  Um but the but the other thing that you know so 
  we're you know we're going for like no these test Suites are run 
  on a weekly basis so week to week you know you know which which 
  implementations follow the spec uh which implementations are 
  interoperable with 1 another which implementations are you know 
  implementing what feature and and so on so forth that's where the 
  can I can I VC site comes in um but the other other kind of I 
  think benefit to this this approach that uh Benjamin and the team 
  have been working on is um the the w3c ccg nor the VC WG needs to 
  be the ones that are writing like modular tests like we've had a 
  number of like interesting new proposals come across the ccg 
  mailing list and there is nothing stopping any other community 
  from using the kind of test Suite infrastructure that's been 
  built and building tests for their specification that might be 
  worked on like elsewhere.
Manu Sporny:   In another.
Manu Sporny:  Standards body another community group uh stuff 
  like that so what we're trying to also do here is kind of like 
  decentralize the way these things are tested like it doesn't have 
  to happen to w3c and it doesn't have to happen in the ccg it can 
  happen um in in other communities.
Manu Sporny:  But we now have a tool you know tooling that allows 
  us to kind of uh collate all of those results together and to 
  kind of like a unified view of the verifiable credentials uh 
  ecosystem.
Manu Sporny:  That's it just.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you man.
Harrison_Tang: Benjamin you have more comments.
Benjamin Young:  Yeah um yeah thank you for that Manu I wanted to 
  follow up something he said about the way testing at the w3c 
  often works is that it's a 1-time thing because again it's it's 
  testing the specification.
Benjamin Young:  All caps um in order for the spec to reach 
  technical recommendation but then that tends to just stall um 
  when I was part of the web annotation working group um a lot of 
  what I did in the last uh waning months of that um experience was 
  work on the test Suites.
Benjamin Young:   And we create.
Benjamin Young:  These and there was.
Benjamin Young:  A lot of energy.
Benjamin Young:  Around you know.
Benjamin Young:  Getting on that implement.
Benjamin Young:  List and being part of that and even 
  contributing to it for a bit and um.
Benjamin Young:   So either.
Benjamin Young:  All this energy.
Benjamin Young:  And Fanfare and you know champagne bottles 
  cracked on the sides of boats and whatever else happens um and 
  then it just sort of stops um and what what I saw.
Benjamin Young:  With the web annotation was that everybody you 
  know left the party and and then nobody was really paying 
  attention after that because it had essentially served its 
  purpose to test the specification um meanwhile we had a whole lot 
  of people show up late to the party who were not part of the 
  working group who tried to come to the community group and say 
  you know we we want to test our implementation which was still 
  possible like the infrastructure was still there you could still 
  do it but there was less incentive there was not a community that 
  was excited about the fact that these test Suites were there and 
  that they could be used um but there was a community the 
  newcomers that desperately wanted to use it and wanted to see it 
  maintained and wanted to get their you know gold star from the 
  w3c for having passed the test Suite.
Benjamin Young:   So 1 of the hopes.
Benjamin Young:  That mono expressed.
Benjamin Young:  And what he was sharing was that by running 
  these uh weekly and by trying to get to a place where uh we're 
  also promoting them and Aggregate and and encouraging the 
  constant running of this that we as a community have um.
Benjamin Young:   Let's say a longer line.
Benjamin Young:  Lasting celebration I guess.
Benjamin Young:  That continues to point to.
Benjamin Young:  The Importance of Being spec compliant and and 
  the benefit of being spec compliant so that when we have 
  newcomers which is a pretty constant thing especially at the 
  community group um that they have a place to go to get said gold 
  star to to learn how to implement their stuff from these test 
  Suites and then show the world and the rest of the community that 
  they are interoperable and then it lets us as a community say.
Benjamin Young:   There's actually.
Benjamin Young:  It's not just.
Benjamin Young:  It's it's actual interrupt and there's provable 
  tests.
Benjamin Young:  Tests that run on a periodic basis that continue 
  to prove that.
Benjamin Young:  So that that may not have been clear in the for 
  those not familiar with the w3c test process that this is this is 
  an expansion that we're trying to make by by running these 
  regularly and by.
Benjamin Young:  The community towards really investing in um 
  more constant testing which we believe will be.
Benjamin Young:  Super healthy for its growth and stability long 
  term.
Manu Sporny: 
  https://wpt.fyi/results/?label=master&label=experimental&aligned
Manu Sporny:  Yeah the the other thing I think to kind of you 
  know pay attention to here is I'm going to share link in the chat 
  channel uh there's this thing that w3c does call the web platform 
  tests so you know 1 thing to note here is that um let me try and 
  screen share I don't know Benjamin if I can screen share at the 
  same time as as you.
Benjamin Young:  Yeah I'll I'll stop so you can take.
Manu Sporny:  So there's there's this concept called the web 
  platform tests it it actually it took like a good 15 years for 
  web browser tests like the browser vendors to get together and go 
  like hey we probably need like a web platform testing 
  infrastructure and it probably needs to be consistent and run 
  regularly because there was a whole bunch of finger pointing in 
  you know during the browser Wars of the late 1990s and early 
  2000s around like who was actually falling the standards and who 
  wasn't and so um the browser vendors some of them got together 
  and said we need objective tests to say who's passing and who's 
  not and what we get today as a result of this is the web platform 
  test dashboard um so there's can I use.com which tells developers 
  whether or not they can use a feature or not and then there's the 
  web platform test dashboard which kind of shows you like which 
  browsers are actually following the the latest standards um 
  these.
Manu Sporny:   These are this is a graph.
Manu Sporny:  How many thousands of tests each browser fails on a 
  nightly basis and you have this data like going back.
Manu Sporny:  You know many many years of you know back to back 
  to 2019 in this in this graph but this kind of shows you like 
  these are the browsers that are actually taking um the standard 
  seriously and are implementing you know to the standards and then 
  there are some that uh are not doing so well you know 
  implementing uh against the standards for whatever reasons you 
  know everyone's got their reasons um but you know it's it's 
  broken down like super in a pretty super fine grained way where 
  you can know like based on which code base you're using.
Manu Sporny:  And which 1.
Manu Sporny:  Also kind of see the complexity for each subsystem 
  here like for example um.
Manu Sporny:  If we look at like accelerometer like just access 
  to the accelerometer in the browser they're like 150 tests.
Manu Sporny:  But if we go down and we look at CSS there are 
  167,000 tests for CSS right and so that helps you kind of 
  understand like the level of complexity that each 1 of these 
  features uh has how good you know each each organization is is 
  doing uh each browser is doing when it comes to that so I think 
  you know our goal here is to try and get to this level of 
  coverage of testing coverage um so that you know people that are 
  looking at verifiable credential uh uh things can understand like 
  which implementations which features are most broadly deployed uh 
  which uh vendors are actually implementing part of the standard 
  um uh in just to get some good kind of graphical view of like how 
  healthy uh or unhealthy the ecosystem is based on like who's 
  implementing What in in when.
Manu Sporny:  So thought that.
Manu Sporny:  But this this is kind of you know this kind of also 
  shows like where we'd like to go uh to kind of make sure that the 
  ecosystem continues to stay healthy when it comes to like 
  following the standards um that that we've all you know agreed to 
  uh in those working groups that's it.
Harrison_Tang: So um yeah I've I've actually uh seemed to uh look 
  through the can IVC uh uh website and then uh yeah if the goal is 
  to kind of incentivize uh constant testing and uh not just a 
  1-time testing that I would suggest like having some kind of time 
  duration graph right uh because right now the can IBC websites is 
  a snapshot of uh what's working and what's not working uh at that 
  at the particular point in time like spider graph doesn't have 
  time to mention so most of the most of the QA reports I see has a 
  Time duration like what Manu just shares so I would just suggest 
  some kind of.
Harrison_Tang:  graph that includes.
Harrison_Tang: Is a Time dimension.
Harrison_Tang: Test uh compliance uh Trend over time yeah just an 
  idea.
Benjamin Young:  Yeah that's a great 1 thank you Harrison.
Harrison_Tang: And then the also another follow-up is how do we 
  kind of know uh the flaking whether the test cases are flaky or 
  can still be trusted.
Benjamin Young:  Uh this this is to me 1 of the core values of 
  the w3c process that it forces test code into the public um all 
  the w3c tests are open source um and can can and should be 
  reviewed um they're there to be looked at by the members 
  especially if the members are doubtful of why they're 
  implementation might be failing for some reason um it's all BSD 3 
  Clause licensed code um and it's is meant to be reviewed open 
  source style and participated in ideally and contributed to um 
  you do not get that from the vast majority of other standards 
  bodies out there um including ones that say they're working on 
  credentialing stuff they either have completely behind closed 
  doors uh test Suites that can be paid for commercially that you 
  will still never see the code for um and you know they they run 
  the tests for you sometimes.
Benjamin Young:   Or you pay to.
Benjamin Young:  Run them yourself.
Benjamin Young:  Tends to not be it tends to be a black box by 
  Design.
Benjamin Young:   Whereas the.
Benjamin Young:  Process just like specification development the 
  test Suites are done in the open.
Benjamin Young:  Or not just member review but also the Public's 
  review.
Benjamin Young:  Newcomers Etc who are like I don't know about 
  this spec I don't know about this implementation.
Benjamin Young:  I read the.
Benjamin Young:  Tests I'm going to test my implementation I have 
  questions about how this is being tested.
Benjamin Young:   You know.
Benjamin Young:  That to go through review to go through 
  iteration to be contributed to by um ideally more than 1 company 
  we're spearheading this because we want to see these specs 
  published um so this is just another way we're contributing to 
  that uh that objective um but it it is done in the open to.
Benjamin Young:  Exactly address the the concern that you raised 
  their.
Harrison_Tang: All right any other questions on the test Suite.
Harrison_Tang: I'll add 1 more question like how how fast is it 
  to kind of run the test Suite uh because uh for example I spoke 
  to our test was quite big so you have the uh the regression test 
  is run nightly and then the integration test is run like uh 
  instantly you know that those kind of things so I'm just curious 
  what's the performance uh the speed of running the test Suite.
Benjamin Young:  So it will certainly depend on which test Suite 
  you're running um they do not all have to be run together and in 
  fact locally you.
Benjamin Young:  Figured you right.
Benjamin Young:  Send them 1.
Benjamin Young:  At a time.
Benjamin Young:  Um the Sunday Night Runner I could probably get 
  stats from and or Sunday morning Runner I could find that and it 
  it runs via GitHub action so it's it's not so long that GitHub is 
  throwing us out oh I will say that um and it is also testing more 
  than 1 implementation.
Benjamin Young:  So again it's a tough question to ask but I 
  could get you stats on that but it's not.
Benjamin Young:  For like the ecdsa 1 that I've been running 
  locally it's less than a minute right now um if that.
Benjamin Young:  But it's you know it's going to depend on the 
  implementation the test suite and whether or not you're doing 
  interop tests or testing everybody's implementation.
Benjamin Young:   You know.
Benjamin Young:  Fully testing those but.
Benjamin Young:  It is not also Harrison these are not unit tests 
  so they're not a they're not doing stress testing or anything 
  that.
Benjamin Young:  To wall time.
Harrison_Tang: Got it thank you.
Harrison_Tang: Right calls for the last questions.
Harrison_Tang: Okay well thank you thanks Benjamin uh for jumping 
  on and present the VC test Suite uh I think most of us here 
  understand the importance of having great test Suites uh not just 
  for uh a better ecosystem but also I think uh in many ways like 
  for business folks or product folks like myself like we care a 
  little bit less about how it's implemented right but rather how 
  it actually whether you actually uh you know passes the 
  acceptance criteria so I think test Suites are quite important uh 
  in that so uh thanks thanks uh and thank you for your great work 
  and contributions and help uh to the community.
Benjamin Young:  Thank you thank you for this time.
Harrison_Tang: All right uh so this concludes uh this week's w3c 
  shii meeting and uh uh you know just uh stay tuned um hopefully 
  everyone else uh can jump on uh every Tuesday again next Tuesday 
  we'll have uh someone from the summer protocols uh Community uh 
  to talk about uh their initiative so uh stay tuned.
<ccgbot> Manu Sporny joined the meeting.
Manu Sporny:  Present+
<ccgbot> Logging to 
  https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-vcapi-2024-04-02-irc.log
<ccgbot> CG Bot joined the meeting.
<ccgbot> Mahmoud joined the meeting.
<ccgbot> Mahmoud: present+
<ccgbot> Tyler Minard joined the meeting.
<ccgbot> Tyler_Minard: present+
<ccgbot> Rajiv Rajani joined the meeting.
<ccgbot> Rajiv_Rajani: present+
<ccgbot> Joe Andrieu joined the meeting.
Joe Andrieu:  Present+
<ccgbot> TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com) 
  joined the meeting.
<ccgbot> TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): 
  present+
<ccgbot> Wes-Smith joined the meeting.
<ccgbot> Wes-Smith: present+
<ccgbot> Transcriber joined the meeting.
ccgbot is scribing.
Transcriber: Meeting: vcapi
Patrick joined the meeting.
Patrick: present+
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Yeah looks like it's going to fail well 
  we can start anyway and wait until it complains um welcome 
  everyone this is the VC API call for.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: April 2nd 2024 uh on.
Patrick left the meeting.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: We do have an agenda today uh our 
  agenda.
Manu Sporny:  Agenda: 
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2024Apr/0000.html
Patrick joined the meeting.
Patrick: present+
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Uh let me go ahead and screen share as 
  well.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Um on the agenda today we've got our 
  standard stuff processing pull requests um Mahmood raised 1 thank 
  you for that um we will assign ready for PR issues that don't 
  have an assignee yet there are only 2 of those um and then we can 
  go through the other issues uh and process those uh as uh needed 
  um any other updates or changes to the agenda anything else that 
  we should discuss today.
Patrick: q+
Patrick has been added to the queue: Patrick
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Patrick.
Patrick: q-
Patrick has been removed from the queue: no one is left on the 
  queue.
The recording for this meeting has ended.
Transcriber: Patrick: Uh yeah just probably worth mentioning just 
  earlier we just for the traceability call there.
Transcriber: Patrick: Move away from the VC API.
Transcriber: Patrick: Uh so I know there was a few discussion 
  around workflows and.
Dave Longley joined the meeting.
Dave_Longley: present+
Transcriber left the meeting.
Transcriber joined the meeting.
ccgbot is scribing.
Transcriber: Meeting: vcapi
This meeting is now being recorded.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Uh so we should put that on the agenda 
  um maybe as the first item does that work.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Yeah happy to talk about.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Okay all right sounds good um any other 
  updates or changes to the agenda.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: All right um we could do uh 
  introductions reintroductions um uh Rajiv are you uh new to the 
  call have you been here before.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Would you mind giving us a little bit 
  of background on yourself and your interest in the verifiable 
  credential API.
Manu Sporny:  Topic: Introductions
John Henderson joined the meeting.
John_Henderson: present+
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Excellent uh welcome to the group uh 
  wonderful to have you here and of course uh thank you uh again 
  for a volunteering to help maintain the did uh specification 
  Registries and the the VC ones as well.
Manu Sporny:  Topic: Traceability and VC API
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Um all right uh any uh let's see let's 
  let's go ahead and move on into I guess our first item um so this 
  is traceability and the VC API um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny:  go ahead.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Over to you.
Transcriber: Patrick: Uh yeah so the.
Transcriber: Patrick: The traceability API for for those unaware 
  it's.
Transcriber: Patrick: You know it's a traceability it's a 
  specification meant to manage verifiable credential when it comes 
  to supply chain use case.
Transcriber: Patrick: Uh they have 2 components enter a private 
  component and a vocabulary component for you know different 
  documents so for the entropy component there was ongoing 
  discussion for a little while about how should tests be conducted 
  so I I I was only part of this call for the last.
Mahmoud: q+
Mahmoud has been added to the queue: Mahmoud
Transcriber: Patrick: 2 3 months and from what I understood it 
  was sort of an extension of the VC API or they decided to 
  Leverage The vcpi as a baseline for what these endpoints should 
  look for uh however there's some disagreements on how these 
  interpolate tests should be conducted and which endpoints should 
  be exposed for testing and there's disagreements on testing what 
  is referred to as internal endpoints.
Benjamin Young joined the meeting.
Benjamin Young:  Present+
Transcriber: Patrick: Um so while discussing well how could we 
  still maintain tests for.
Transcriber: Patrick: Requirements of the spec when it comes to 
  data model and revocation and you know which which feature to 
  implement and what was decided was to test this without testing 
  an issuance endpoint directly but testing the endpoints of the 
  implementation which would receive presentations from 
  third-party.
Transcriber: Patrick: So following that discussion if we're not 
  going to test the internal endpoints what was the point in 
  keeping them in the specs so this was sort of the.
Transcriber: Patrick:  the con.
Transcriber: Patrick: The topic I don't think it was a final 
  decision but there was definitely him that maybe not maintaining 
  these internal endpoints as part of the specification I don't 
  know if that would you can add some details to that.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Um so to add a little bit of color.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: The VC API started 3 years ago 4 years ago 
  something like that traceability API work started about a year 
  after that with the idea that there are some more strict 
  requirements on how um members of that specification people want 
  to adhere to it would like to exchange information.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Originally it was supposed to be just the 
  direct profile of the VC API what we then realized was that uh we 
  don't need to redo a lot of the work and this this realization 
  has been reasonably recent right and we don't need to redo a lot 
  of that work it just doesn't make sense we could just refer to VC 
  API with regards to basically every endpoint except the.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Specific endpoints that are that that 
  affect the the unique requirements that exist on the trade site.
Transcriber: Mahmoud:  and as far as.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: We can tell.
Manu Sporny:  Q+
Manu_Sporny has been added to the queue: Mahmoud, Manu_Sporny
Transcriber: Mahmoud: That unique endpoint is the slash 
  presentations endpoint where there will be some extra specific 
  requirements that we have such as the credentials that are 
  submitted to it must always have an ID stuff like that right um 
  and the entire point of it was it was we were always supposed to 
  be um compatible with the VC API and we found that there's just a 
  ton of drift that keeps happening and a significant portion of 
  that is just because
There are 2 different people working on this on the same endpoint 
  2 different groups are on the same endpoint that just causes that 
  drift so uh we've decided to remedy that problem and just simply 
  say for every endpoint around issuance or management of your 
  credential or anything like that please refer to the VC API 
  specifically for the presentation side on how to move 
  traceability documentation please refer the traceability interval 
  and that I believe
Covers the the entire thing.
Manu Sporny:  Q-
Manu_Sporny has been removed from the queue: Mahmoud
Mahmoud: q-
Mahmoud has been removed from the queue: no one is left on the 
  queue.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Okay thank you uh Patrick thank you mmm 
  that was that was super helpful um I'm wondering so I mean that 
  you know the the VC API was always meant to be like here A bunch 
  of endpoints implement the ones that help you and for the ones 
  that don't you don't need to implement them um I think that's 
  always kind of been the general.
Patrick: q+
Patrick has been added to the queue: Patrick
Mahmoud: q+
Mahmoud has been added to the queue: Patrick, Mahmoud
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: You know thing which is like we're 
  going to define a bunch of stuff and then we're going to see what 
  sub communities find which endpoints useful and then in the 
  future we may decide that there is like a base profile that 
  everyone should should implement but I think it's largely meant 
  to be just kind of like here's an optional set of endpoints that 
  we hope is is useful to everyone um the the only concern I have a 
  brown what I
Think I heard was that the presentation endpoint might have 
  different payloads like it's not a subset it's like a deviation 
  or complete separation or or or potentially like they're not 
  interoperable like they're incompatible you have to either 
  implement it as a trace API does or the VC API does I'm wondering 
  if if like just a simple endpoint rename would address the issues 
  so that if they're.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny:  is like.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: A conflict of.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Um that people don't have to choose 
  like going left versus going going right on the API.
Patrick: q-
Patrick has been removed from the queue: Mahmoud
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Was that discussed or like is it what's 
  what's the concern I guess Patrick like it does it like you know 
  VC API is going to give 1 set of suggestions and then 
  traceability is going to give an incompatible set of other 
  suggestions.
Transcriber: Patrick: When I talk when I say the presentation and 
  point what if the fine is just a post presentations and this is a 
  authenticated endpoints that you would send authenticated payload 
  with a barrier token.
Manu Sporny:  Q+
Manu_Sporny has been added to the queue: Mahmoud, Manu_Sporny
Transcriber: Patrick: Basically send a presentation to another 
  party that has you know provided you with a pair of oath 
  credentials and I don't believe there's a point like that in the 
  VC API there's no post presentations.
Manu Sporny:  Q-
Manu_Sporny has been removed from the queue: Mahmoud
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Uh yes that is correct mhm just raised 
  the pr that creates it but I think we want to change that 
  endpoint so you don't post to slash presentations but you post to 
  slash presentation slash create so if that's the pattern then 
  there is no conflict between the 2 apis as far as I understand 
  it.
Transcriber: Patrick: Well that that that's the thing like it's 
  not to create a presentation right it's tool so I've already 
  created my presentation and now I'm sending it to you.
Transcriber: Patrick: Which you are a verifier and sending it to 
  you so you can receive my presentation and do as you please with 
  it you know verify the credentials store them or whichever that's 
  how I understand it but I.
Transcriber: Patrick:  and I.
Transcriber: Patrick: Alleged that this is this might be missing 
  from the vcpi or it might just be.
Transcriber: Patrick: Through these workflow and these the 
  exchange service which is not defined in the traceability API.
Manu Sporny:  Q+
Manu_Sporny has been added to the queue: Mahmoud, Manu_Sporny
Dave_Longley: q+
Dave_Longley has been added to the queue: Mahmoud, Manu_Sporny, 
  Dave_Longley
Transcriber: Mahmoud: So um I just want to speak for a second 
  about this um let's assume there's an abstract presentations 
  endpoint whose entire purpose it is to receive presentations and 
  tell you do whatever you want with them right but we're doing on 
  the trace API is we're saying if you want to submit those 
  presentations to us they must be of type traceable presentation 
  that's really the core distinction of what we are saying the 
  trace interrupt
Profile needs to do versus what the trade the VC API is to do 
  right your point about them being different um so so the point is 
  that if you submit a non-traceable presentation to a uh.
Manu Sporny:  Q-
Manu_Sporny has been removed from the queue: Mahmoud, 
  Dave_Longley
Patrick: q+
Patrick has been added to the queue: Mahmoud, Dave_Longley, 
  Patrick
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Trace API endpoint it should reject or 
  anything like that right so your point about changing the name 
  and having them non-conflict it is very well taken I don't think 
  we've discussed it but I think it makes a lot of sense to have 
  something that is unique to trace API so that people won't have 
  any of these conflicts I don't think that's been discussed but 
  it's an excellent idea and we should definitely do that.
Dave_Longley: q-
Dave_Longley has been removed from the queue: Mahmoud, Patrick
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Okay um Dave you're up and then 
  Patrick.
Mahmoud: q-
Mahmoud has been removed from the queue: Patrick
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: Yes so what I was hearing in your 
  description just now was um something that I think is already 
  solved on a variety of on any endpoint through configuration.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: The expectation is that the 
  configuration on the end at the other side of this endpoint that 
  you're talking to that's associated you know that that when you 
  when you hit an endpoint its associated with a particular 
  configuration that configuration could.
Mahmoud: q+
Mahmoud has been added to the queue: Patrick, Mahmoud
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: Rules in it that say these types are 
  required and you can reject for any purpose this is the same 
  thing is true if you create an issue or an issuer instance and 
  you could have a configuration behind it that requires the type 
  of credential to be Foo or bar and so if a client sends a VC to 
  that endpoint and the type is not for a bar it could reject so 
  that seems to me like it just fits into the the Paradigm we have 
  everywhere
Around uh instance configurations which are allowed to have 
  whatever rules you want to and clients would then uh have their 
  things projected so in the traceability space all of these 
  presentation uh end points you're talking about would be backed 
  by configurations that would reject something that is doesn't 
  have a traceability presentation type on it.
Patrick: q-
Patrick has been removed from the queue: Mahmoud
Transcriber: Patrick: Yeah the the the way I can see the 
  traceability.
Transcriber: Patrick: Back is that it's like a pre-set of 
  configuration because they're more specific on what they expect 
  to be sent like they expect bitstring status list with revocation 
  they expect the data model 2.0 so these are requirements so these 
  are as with the VC API.
Transcriber: Patrick: Set of endpoint that allows you to accept 
  whichever configuration you want so that's a good thing and I I 
  think and maybe you can correct me on this but I think there's 
  there's still value in the traceability API to mention that.
Transcriber: Patrick: You know if you're not knowledgeable if 
  you're not sure how to implement this to refer to the VC API as 
  an example of the type of system you can build but if you are 
  knowledgeable and you have knowledge and how to make a VC 
  platform you are free to implement it however you want internally 
  as long as you have a.
Transcriber: Patrick: Presentations endpoint configured according 
  to the spec would that be a good uh.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Yeah so actually we're we're silent on how 
  you configure your endpoint we don't even we the the key change 
  really is we have realized that we don't really care how behind 
  the scenes you are interoperable as long as the exchange that's 
  occurring is interoperable and does pass tests so if you're able 
  to configure your endpoint via the VC API configurations then 
  wonderful that works that's great and that is absolutely a valid 
  solution
And you can be completely compliant with the traceability spec.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Is you need to be able to do to to comply 
  with this specific subset of rules if you are and you do it in 
  whatever language and in whatever method that's fine and I agree 
  with Patrick's Point and we already do reference the VC API in 
  like hey if you want to do it look here for samples right and we 
  do provide sample samples on the traceability API itself as well 
  so um I think that is the the key change from where we were to 
  where we
Are now right which is we used to sort of mandate how your 
  internal functions kind of should have should look and now we're 
  saying no we really don't care about that if you want to do it in 
  a VC API compliant way go ahead if you want to do it in a 
  completely non VC API compliant way but it still implements this 
  1 end point and does it correctly then that's also valid and you 
  can go ahead and do that.
Manu Sporny:  Q+
Manu_Sporny has been added to the queue: Mahmoud, Manu_Sporny
Manu Sporny:  Q-
Manu_Sporny has been removed from the queue: Mahmoud
Mahmoud: q-
Mahmoud has been removed from the queue: no one is left on the 
  queue.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Yeah I mean I think um yeah I mean I 
  think that's that's that's fine that's that's 1 1 way to do it I 
  think the 1 of the 1 of the things that.
Mahmoud: q+
Mahmoud has been added to the queue: Mahmoud
Patrick: q+
Patrick has been added to the queue: Mahmoud, Patrick
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: We've found uh with at least I'm going 
  to put my digital bizarre hat on um as a vendor uh we found with 
  some of our customers that uh they want to run multiple issuance 
  infrastructures behind the scenes and that's where some of the VC 
  API issue verify whatever endpoints start to become important 
  meaning meaning like they need to understand what the internal 
  API is that they use to communicate with each 1 of these issuance 
  and
Verification platforms and VC API provides that for them such 
  that they can deploy 1 or 2 or 3 different issuer infrastructures 
  they large vendors tend to do that um sorry large organizations 
  tend to do that to reduce vendor lock in and ensure they're not 
  using proprietary apis behind the scenes and and that sort of 
  thing so there there they're kind of like 2 levels of interrupt 
  there is like the external system the external.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny:  external system in our.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Up like the.
Mahmoud: exactly
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Like like 2 different holders 
  interrupting or a holder and a verifier that are totally 
  different systems interrupting and I think Mahmud that those are 
  the API end points you're speaking to like as long as you 
  implement those external API uh you know system to uh uh system a 
  to system B ex you know that are they're not.
Mahmoud: yes, trace focuses entirely on cross-trust domain
Patrick: q-
Patrick has been removed from the queue: Mahmoud
Mahmoud: q-
Mahmoud has been removed from the queue: no one is left on the 
  queue.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Part of the same system interfaces then 
  you can demonstrate interop because the data flying over those 
  channels is like um you know you you you can move data around and 
  that's how you demonstrate interop whereas the VC API like the 
  issue endpoint and the verify endpoint those are you know 
  typically within the same trust domain um uh and those are to 
  ensure that you don't have this proprietary API uh issue if you 
  want to you know
Plug and Play different vendors into uh your system um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: You know it's 2 levels of interop 
  there's there's cross domain interop which I think Mahmud is what 
  you're saying the traceability folks are focusing on and then 
  there's within the same trust domain interop where a particular 
  organization wants to feels you know 2 or more uh issuer 
  infrastructures or verifier infrastructures um and again you know 
  it's up to that organization to determine like.
Patrick: q+
Patrick has been added to the queue: Patrick
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Interrupt uh they want um the only 
  other thought I have on the the presentations thing is I I would 
  imagine that this group I think this group has made a decision to 
  not Implement a post presentations endpoint um instead we've got 
  this concept of uh workflows and exchanges and that is how you do 
  the presentations uh uh stuff um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny:  so again.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Again I don't.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Think that there's a conflict there I 
  think it's just you know the traceability folks are deciding to 
  you know do that type of um endpoint in a different way.
Patrick: q-
Patrick has been removed from the queue: no one is left on the 
  queue.
Transcriber: Patrick: Yeah and the same thing for storing a 
  credential right like there's no endpoint to store a credential 
  in the VC API this is to be made through Exchange.
Transcriber: Patrick: You know uh like you can store credential 
  you've issued but there's no credentials slash store endpoint uh 
  for example but some implementers might want to add a way to 
  start credential into their system you know this is a bit what 
  I've made in the areas Cloud agent python you know there was no.
Transcriber: Patrick: Way to store a credential besides going 
  through a did Cam to issue credential V2 protocol.
Transcriber: Patrick: Which makes it makes the the credential 
  storage code less accessible and you know implementing this was 
  sort of a step 1 ideally.
Transcriber: Patrick: Would be made through sort of an exchange 
  but then we get into the discussion of having an exchanging 
  service which is sort of separate but.
Transcriber: Patrick: You know 1 thing I could ask as a question 
  is if you have an exchanger service and I don't know if this is 
  in the the diagram like.
Transcriber: Patrick: Your exchange service.
Transcriber: Patrick: Does it talk to your storage directly.
Transcriber: Patrick: Is a part of because even if you exchange a 
  credential through.
Transcriber: Patrick: An exchange service as a holder.
Transcriber: Patrick: Ultimately that exchange will need to talk 
  to the storage uh so I don't know if it would still be valuable 
  to have a store endpoint but where you know with sidetracked here 
  as I usually do.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: No I mean it's it's it's good to have 
  these discussions so we have these workflow Services um and they 
  tend to work with the coordinators um and we don't talk about you 
  know do they have access to um I mean that's kind of an 
  implementation detail on what what what storage they have access 
  to and what they don't have access to and that that sort of thing 
  um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: So so I mean all this you know all this 
  sounds like you know the trace folks are going to focus on the 
  interop that you get here like a lot of like at the center of the 
  diagram Trace folks seem like they're focusing on interop at this 
  level and not necessarily interop behind the coordinators like 
  these things back here.
Dave_Longley: i do like the heart at the middle of this diagram 
  :)
Transcriber: Patrick: Exactly and you know so like if there's an 
  implementation guideline and you refer to the VC API.
Transcriber: Patrick: Uh nothing prevents someone from 
  implementing it and running the VC API test Suites you know I 
  think even.
Transcriber: Patrick:  I think.
Transcriber: Patrick: Banette has an implementation as a VC API 
  implementer.
Transcriber: Patrick: It's just you know I I I kind of and that's 
  also something I kind of see it was sort of a duplicate of 
  existing tests right like there's already tests to test these VC 
  API endpoints and then the traceability.
Transcriber: Patrick: To focus on Cross trust exchange to make 
  sure that 1 implementation can.
Transcriber: Patrick: Understand the others implementation of you 
  know whether it's the best string status list or the signature um 
  the actual issuance is less relevant in that context than the 
  sort of output of the final object.
Manu Sporny:  Q+
Manu_Sporny has been added to the queue: Manu_Sporny
Manu Sporny:  Q-
Manu_Sporny has been removed from the queue: no one is left on 
  the queue.
Manu Sporny:  Q+
Manu_Sporny has been added to the queue: Manu_Sporny
Manu Sporny:  Q-
Manu_Sporny has been removed from the queue: no one is left on 
  the queue.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Yeah I mean I think this just boils 
  down to There's No 1 way to to do interop testing and 
  demonstrations um and you know I think it you know the in a in a 
  perfect world we would all be implementing you know the same base 
  level API and we'd be using the same tests and the same kind of 
  like interop demonstration but at the same time you know it takes 
  years to get there and if the you know then the trace folks need 
  to deploy stuff
And you know they and their focus is going to be different than 
  you know some some other communities and I I think that's fine as 
  long as you know we're just more or less using the same kind of 
  infra the same kind of architecture right um uh anyway I you know 
  I so so you know this is an ideal right but at the same time.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: You know the trace folks need to do 
  what they need to do to get to a level of interop that their 
  customers find acceptable and you know I think in the VC API in 
  this work we're more focused on kind of the um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: You do care about the the cross trust 
  domain use cases with exchanges and things like that that's 
  really important but we also have you know a set of customers 
  that are very interested in the within the same trust domain apis 
  they they just want complete elimination of any kind of 
  proprietary API anywhere uh in the ecosystem and I think that's 
  where.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: You know the VC API is largely uh 
  focused.
Transcriber: Patrick: Yeah that's that's interesting and I think 
  that's a core distinction between the the 2 approach.
Transcriber: Patrick: Uh because this sort of approach of not 
  testing these endpoint is for this like a custom and closed 
  Source implementation.
Transcriber: Patrick: You know that wants to be free to sort of 
  do.
Transcriber: Patrick: Implementing it and their way and that that 
  seems to be preferred and the traceability side but yeah I 
  wouldn't.
Transcriber: Patrick: Have much details.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: And I mean you know if if if someone 
  and there's nothing preventing somebody in the traceability 
  cohort from implementing VC API the internal stuff in in the way 
  that it's described you know in in the spec that should that 
  should work as well they they they're not incompatible um I guess 
  is what I'm trying to say.
Transcriber: Patrick: Yeah but I I think having still having 
  implementers guide linking to the VC API would make it far 
  favorable for people who want to join the ecosystem to have.
Transcriber: Patrick: A example of something they can get started 
  with and the architectural model.
Transcriber: Patrick: While keeping it separate because by 
  implementing the VC API.
Transcriber: Patrick: You then have the tools you need to be able 
  to send your presentations to an endpoint.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Yep yep yep.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Right um are there any actions for us 
  to take from this discussion.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Is there anything we need to raise 
  issues change the spec anything like.
Transcriber: Patrick: The the only thing I can think of was like 
  the few you know with the workflows discussion I think there's 
  less of a concern of overstepping now.
Transcriber: Patrick: And this was already sort of resolved so I 
  think there's more action item on the trade Supply decided this 
  API I can go through the issues and flag if I see some.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Okay yeah that would be super helpful 
  Patrick um if if you if you can but yeah I'm not I'm not seeing 
  any any issue um right now any any any big like.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: We're on a collision course issue um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Okay uh thanks uh Patrick thanks 
  Mahmood uh for bringing that to the group's attention um we'll go 
  ahead and move on to our next uh topic uh which is uh pull 
  requests processing.
Manu Sporny:  Topic: Processing Pull Requests
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Full requests so that is.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Here uh we have 1.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: PR that is very much related to the 
  discussion that we just had um Mahmud took an action to update uh 
  the uh presentations proven point to create um the only and so 
  you know it's changing the language changing the name of the uh 
  operation ID um you know from prove to created um uh create 
  presentation to you know anyway so so there is.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: That but there's I think the 1 thing we 
  just talked about this I think Mahmud you you changed it to like.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Sorry let me.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: You changed it.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Yeah I changed the slash presentations.
Dave_Longley: q+
Dave_Longley has been added to the queue: Dave_Longley
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Yeah and I think what we want is slash 
  presentation slash create um and the reason for that is we in 
  this group decided like a year or 2 ago probably longer that we 
  were going to follow the controller um pattern from the rest API 
  design guidelines um and.
Dave_Longley: q-
Dave_Longley has been removed from the queue: no one is left on 
  the queue.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: I think that would mean we would do you 
  know slash presentation slash create um and go ahead Dave.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: Yeah I'm going to go ahead and 
  disagree so uh when we're creating new so it really depends 
  what's happening um if you're creating something new that's going 
  to be stored somewhere we we just post to that endpoint and 
  create that thing we do that with exchanges uh there's probably 
  if we have anything else that's what we do um.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: The I think the reason that this was 
  proved before and changed to create was that this was supposed to 
  be purely functional it doesn't create any state it doesn't store 
  anything doesn't do anything so it really depends what the what 
  the endpoint does um.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: And something similar happens when you 
  post to.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: I guess maybe yeah this this this 
  particular endpoint is is because so few people outside of 
  traceability have implemented this endpoint I think we're kind of 
  in a unclear situation.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley:  but um.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: Want to make clear that using the uh 
  unfortunately was called controller uh Paradigm because that that 
  it's unfortunate because it conflicts with the use of controller 
  in lots of other places in in VC technology but in the in the 
  restful doc documentation that we have for the style guide It's 
  called The Controller when you're creating a function that does 
  that effectively just perform something and likely doesn't 
  produce any
State we do that when we're like verifying um a credential or a 
  presentation.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: That you couldn't for example 
  Implement something that like stored some auditing logs or 
  something when a function is executed but generally if you're 
  going to create something that is then later referenceable.
Mahmoud: q+
Mahmoud has been added to the queue: Mahmoud
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: Um you post to the the name of the 
  container containing type and if that's what this endpoint is 
  about posting to a presentation on point to create 1 and stored 
  and then reference it later then it I don't think it's the right 
  thing to do to call it against slash create but just to post to 
  the endpoint.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Uh okay go ahead Mahood.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: So the the goal of this endpoint as far as 
  I know is to create a new thing and start and that thing is a 
  presentation I just went through it and I think they may have 
  updated their the so the link that you sent was to restful 
  api.net unless I'm reading something different and I don't I 
  think there's a comment that says uh.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: If you're creating something like post 
  slash users so there's a comment by the author that basically 
  says instead of creating post slash users slash ID slash activate 
  do Post slash activated users with the idea that like it's a 
  resource and it's a name but I'm trying to find the direct 1 to 1 
  thing that says that to my knowledge whenever you're creating 
  directly and you want to post to it you would have it it would be 
  a name the
Resource it would not be a verb it would be the noun right.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: I'm missing something yeah I think it even 
  says do not use verbs.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Right um okay I'm I'm fine to change it 
  to whatever the group you know wants I am concerned that we have 
  a bunch of other misnamed end points at this point um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Especially since this like don't use 
  verbs Yuri we definitely have verbs in our URI um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: What is yeah I mean what are we doing 
  here because.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: You should search for the controller 
  pattern in this.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: Guide because that's where we.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: I think he removed it that's the the issue.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Unless I'm missing something.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Yeah I mean that could be it hitting 
  the thing we decided to use is no longer.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Which would mean that we would have to 
  go through and rename all of our endpoints.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: To whatever the best practice currently 
  is.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Do we have many endpoints that conflict 
  with us.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Um let me see.
Benjamin Young:  POST /credentials/issue (for one)
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Uh derive so let's see.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: This 1 potentially it's arguable.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: I don't think the latter 1 does 
  because you're updating a a you know.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Okay so maybe this 1.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: Yeah that 1 is purely functional.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: That that would be issued for example or 
  something like that.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Sorry say that again.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: It would be issued or issued credential or 
  something like that but I or something that sounds better but I I 
  think that 1 is.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: Well yeah so and we should say we 
  should decide whether it is a problem or whether we're going to 
  say we're using this guide plus the controller part of the guide 
  that got removed so that's the other thing we could do.
Benjamin Young:  Q+
Benjamin_Young has been added to the queue: Mahmoud, 
  Benjamin_Young
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: I think that's problematic because then 
  people will be like you're just making it up um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: That was the whole problem in the 
  beginning was that you know picking picking a standard.
Benjamin Young:  Q-
Benjamin_Young has been removed from the queue: Mahmoud
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Mechanism that we could reference 
  stopped all the internal kind of fighting about what the right 
  thing to do is um but now that that reference has been revised.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Benjamin.
Manu Sporny:  Ack mahmoud
Mahmoud has the floor.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Herbs and URLs are anciently opposed 
  so if there had been guidance that said it was fine in certain 
  ways.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young:  that was.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Unicorn which is probably why they 
  got rid of it.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Yeah except I mean this was a year ago 
  I'm I'm not arguing for this like I never like this pattern but 
  it was at least consistent and documented elsewhere and in theory 
  had consensus and it looks like it's just been similarly removed 
  um which then makes me question whether or not this thing we're 
  referencing is a useful thing to reference um and we could just 
  go back to you know quote unquote standard.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: You know restful patterns um Okay so 
  we've got that 1 let's just flag these as issues we've got that 1 
  uh.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Credentials and presentations verify.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: Yeah they would be the same thing 
  those are functional.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: But what do you mean by like you're 
  saying those are functional so we should keep them.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: Yeah this is like putting a functional 
  at the end of a HTTP endpoint it's you know it's a verb it's a 
  function uh it's does not imply that any there are any stateful 
  changes when you make these calls it's a way to.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: Execute a function against an 
  instance.
Benjamin Young:  Q+
Benjamin_Young has been added to the queue: Benjamin_Young
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Okay uh go ahead Benjamin.
Benjamin Young:  Q-
Benjamin_Young has been removed from the queue: no one is left on 
  the queue.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Or I don't guess the open API docs 
  are up to date are they.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: As a way to like see across all the 
  things.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Uh they are.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: What do you mean like could we pull up 
  the.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Because well the thing that.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: You know post post to verify is 
  going to be.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Confusing but it really comes down 
  to what's going in the body.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Um to help determine what the noun 
  to use would be.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: This thing is going a verifiable 
  credential is going in in the body this object.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Yeah uh okay so let's so those 2 and 
  then we've got you know present credentials derive again.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Verbi and then we just.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Updated this this would would drop the 
  create call um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: So all that to say that we've got you 
  know we've got.
Benjamin Young:  Q+
Benjamin_Young has been added to the queue: Benjamin_Young
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: 5 or 6 end points that we need to 
  potentially reconsider or you know Dave we use the argument that 
  you're using which is these are you know they don't change State 
  um and therefore it's just a functional design pattern um but we 
  you know ideally we find some place that we can reference that 
  has a community that has debated this where.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: We can otherwise you know we're back in 
  the same position of people going you're just.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny:  you know.
Benjamin Young:  Q-
Benjamin_Young has been removed from the queue: no one is left on 
  the queue.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: You're making things up um there's 
  nobody else out there that thinks that um go ahead Benjamin.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Yeah so there there is an inbox 
  pattern which is where we get the word post from to begin with um 
  where you can imagine these verbs is having the word to in front 
  of them so presentations to prove and posting is a pending 
  essentially to.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Thereby now to find all the verbs 
  not suggesting that we put the word to in all the URLs but if we 
  were to make a case for why it is this way.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: That conceptually we're treating 
  these as you know.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young:  an inbox.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: On a desk of sorts in your posting 
  the VC into the presentations to verify stack and then it's it's 
  coming back with a response which is what day's been describing 
  is functional.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Um that's not totally without its 
  prior art because.
Mahmoud: q+
Mahmoud has been added to the queue: Mahmoud
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Like messaging relays and stuff done 
  as HTTP often use a pattern like that but they'll they'll notify 
  them into words like inbox or whatever.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: But I I don't know what the risk of 
  URL changes here or or how.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Significantly feel that is.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Versus complaints when this goes for 
  review.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Yeah it's a good question uh Mahmud 
  you're up.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: So I'm a little bit torn because we have a 
  versioning.
Transcriber: Mahmoud:  scheme already.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Allows us to say um version 0.3 version 0.4 
  of the API does XYZ I don't believe we have a way to actually 
  version like dynamically what API you're calling so that you can 
  check which endpoints are so I'm a little bit worried about 
  actually changing the URLs because I know how much adoption this 
  is already taken.
Manu Sporny:  Q+
Manu_Sporny has been added to the queue: Mahmoud, Manu_Sporny
Manu Sporny:  Ack mahmoud
Mahmoud has the floor.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: And um something like this would require I 
  mean it's not a lot of effort to modify that points on a 
  developer's part but it is some effort that everybody would need 
  to make right um it is you know a thing that we we might want to 
  consider and so if there's any way we can retain the current like 
  flow without changing it if we can find something that already 
  exists I would be more um I I would prefer.
Manu Sporny:  Q-
Manu_Sporny has been removed from the queue: no one is left on 
  the queue.
Mahmoud: q-
You aren't on the speaker queue.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Yep um so though I think the way the 
  test Suites the at least the VC API test Suites work now is you 
  do have kind of like a short name and then you provide a full URL 
  to your endpoint and so in that way that it wouldn't negatively 
  impact.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: The test suite and the interop testing 
  because people you know are are already having to like the the 
  whole URLs you opaque it'll just use whatever opaque URL you give 
  it um so it won't won't negatively impact all the round-trip and 
  testing and all that kind of stuff and those people can upgrade 
  their endpoints in time but it does impact like we've been 
  telling people for quite a while that like.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: This is you can count on these these 
  letters existing like you can count on this path structure and 
  now we're like.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Well we either will keep it or we're 
  going to change it um.
Benjamin Young:  Q+
Benjamin_Young has been added to the queue: Benjamin_Young
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: I think in order to keep it we've got 
  to find.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Something written somewhere by some 
  community that you know thinks about this stuff.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny:  uh that.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: That we can cite um or we can just 
  basically be like.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: We'll justify it and then see if people 
  complain um.
Benjamin Young:  Q-
Benjamin_Young has been removed from the queue: no one is left on 
  the queue.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Benjamin.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: I'm wondering in the changing them 
  category of options if there's a way we could deprecate them.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Place them put it in the change log 
  that essentially it's it's supported.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young:  you know.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: For historic reasons but new 
  implementers should.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: With these new names.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Is we're we're well ahead of facing 
  errata.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Change sort of.
Manu Sporny:  Q+
Manu_Sporny has been added to the queue: Manu_Sporny
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Miss you know it'll new implementers 
  will get the right thing and it's really just people who got 
  their first right.
Manu Sporny:  Q-
Manu_Sporny has been removed from the queue: no one is left on 
  the queue.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: And we can support that.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Yeah and I mean we should we should 
  probably just all remember that like this is a ccg highly 
  experimental API that you know is expected to change rapidly the 
  only other so so that's 1 side of it the other side of it is like 
  this stuff has already been shipped to production in a variety of 
  scenarios so like you know um.
Benjamin Young:  Q+
Benjamin_Young has been added to the queue: Benjamin_Young
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny:  what you.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Said Benjamin comes into play in in 
  that case is that like this stuff is already escaped into the 
  real world um.
Benjamin Young:  Q-
Benjamin_Young has been removed from the queue: no one is left on 
  the queue.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Yeah the Marquee and Center tag 
  still work in your browser so that's the level of deprecation I'm 
  meaning like leave them in the spec and.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Say early adopters.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Probably did this and their urls.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Servers so yeah they they exist um.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: But could be.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: Relatively easy to support both.
Transcriber: Benjamin_Young: As Alias is a redirects or whatever.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Yep okay so we we need to um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: We need to we do we do need to address 
  this sooner than later uh because you know this is a fairly.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Ific change if we choose to make it um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Okay anything else on uh this item 
  before we move on or or sorry I guess we were processing this 
  this PR and I think the argument here is like.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Don't put slash create just do a post 
  to presentations which is what Mahmud had originally suggested.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: And then we're back to.
Mahmoud: q+
Mahmoud has been added to the queue: Mahmoud
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: DC API is describing it and 
  traceability is describing it.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: As long as we Define it in a way that 
  enables traceability to subclass it or subset it to say like no 
  you have to post a traceable presentation here.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Actually know this isn't an inbox like 
  this this endpoint is meant to create a presentation like a 
  holder uses it to create a presentation versus what the trace 
  folks want the endpoint for is to receive a presentation so there 
  are semantically different.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: So we're back into.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny:  we need.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: To figure out.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: To name these things because we've got 
  a conflict now if we're going to go away from this controller 
  pattern.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Uh so I think what we're doing on the VC 
  API in other places is like the exchange is you post to slash 
  whatever the resource name is to create it and I think that is 
  the correct and standard restful thing I think in this instance 
  the traceability is using it the wrong way and it should be 
  something like slash presentation slash traceable or whatever 
  right something that would indicate um we are sending a 
  presentation to be that
You're like that you are submitting a presentation to be verified 
  rather than create a presentation for me so I think this PR is 
  correct because what it's doing is.
Manu Sporny:  Q+
Manu_Sporny has been added to the queue: Mahmoud, Manu_Sporny
Manu Sporny:  Q-
Manu_Sporny has been removed from the queue: Mahmoud
Transcriber: Mahmoud: I mean as long as I understand it right 
  which is telling you to please create a presentation based on 
  these things unless I'm misunderstanding that.
Dave_Longley: q+
Dave_Longley has been added to the queue: Mahmoud, Dave_Longley
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: No that's that's the correct 
  interpretation okay we're seeing some thumbs up here okay so 
  Mahmud if you feel that traceability folks would be okay with 
  that direction fundamentally I think what the traceability folks 
  is has or are defining as is an inbox like you know you want to 
  receive presentations at this at this place so if you all are 
  okay creating like I mean you can name it whatever you want but 
  like slash presentation
Slash inbox or slash presentation slash traceable um that would 
  address the the issue like we would know no longer be you know in 
  Conflict so um so what we could do is.
Mahmoud: q-
Mahmoud has been removed from the queue: Dave_Longley
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Pull this PR in Mahmud yours as is or 
  just say we're going to do that and if you and Patrick could 
  check with the trace folks to make sure that they're okay with 
  that direction of naming their presentations endpoint something 
  like you know presentation slash.
Dave_Longley: q-
Dave_Longley has been removed from the queue: no one is left on 
  the queue.
Mahmoud: q+
Mahmoud has been added to the queue: Mahmoud
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Receive or inbox or or whatever um I 
  think we we we can merge this we don't have a conflict and we can 
  move on um Dave.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: Yeah I think all that sounds fine um I 
  think that.
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: The if exchanges had made its way 
  further along before traceability got started we would have just 
  said the right thing to do is use an exchange for what they're 
  they're doing over there but.
Patrick: q+
Patrick has been added to the queue: Mahmoud, Patrick
Transcriber: Dave_Longley: API is meant to be extensible and you 
  can do what you want and I think that's the the right path.
Patrick: q-
Patrick has been removed from the queue: Mahmoud
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Okay uh Patrick.
Mahmoud: q-
Mahmoud has been removed from the queue: no one is left on the 
  queue.
Dave_Longley: q+
Dave_Longley has been added to the queue: Dave_Longley
Transcriber: Patrick: Yeah so we we removed an endpoint today 
  that I think was presentation submit that was used for like data 
  presentation exchange so maybe since this endpoint is not there 
  anymore we could revisit replacing the presentations with the 
  presentation submit unless this is already in the VC API I don't 
  think so.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: It's it's not.
Mahmoud: q+
Mahmoud has been added to the queue: Dave_Longley, Mahmoud
Transcriber: Patrick: Yeah so I don't know what you think about 
  this Mammoth like a presentation slash submit which is where 
  someone would post the presentation is.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Mhm it's the same verb thing and I think we 
  can iron that out on the traceability side I don't think that's 
  really I don't think this is the time to figure that out what I 
  will say is um on your point Manu of reviewing this PR.
Dave_Longley: q-
Dave_Longley has been removed from the queue: Mahmoud
Transcriber: Mahmoud: To like holding it and reviewing it next 
  week is that the traceability call has moved times and it will 
  happen after next week's PC API call so I don't know if that 
  makes like I don't know if that would work and I don't think um 
  can get the group to review this prior to that.
Mahmoud: q-
Mahmoud has been removed from the queue: no one is left on the 
  queue.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: So they will stay for 2 weeks.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Mhm that's fine and we can we can let 
  this yeah we yeah we can let this hang out until it's resolved 
  it's important for us to align before we merge it.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Does that work for you Muhammad there 
  was no time.
Dave_Longley: Just wanted to note that we wouldn't create an 
  endpoint to receive presentations in the way that traceability 
  does at this point -- because exchanges does that. But they can 
  do that, of course.
Transcriber: Mahmoud: Yep happy to listen I don't think there's 
  anything super urgent about this.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Okay alright okay we will do that then 
  uh and with that uh we are more or less out of time uh thank you 
  everyone for the uh great discussion today um.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Should try to take some time to think 
  about how we can rename these verb.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: The end points or if we want to do that 
  or if we don't want to do that um this is find the citation 
  something that we can cite that gives us a someone other than us 
  to to to um to refer to.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Um okay that's it for the call this 
  week um we may not have a call next week because a variety of 
  people are.
Dave Longley left the meeting.
Mahmoud left the meeting.
Patrick left the meeting.
Transcriber: Manu_Sporny: Uh traveling for the eclipse at least 
  in some parts of the US so um next week's call might be canceled 
  um and we'll we'll meet up the the following week if that happens 
  um all right thanks all have a good 1 CIA.
Benjamin Young left the meeting.
Tyler Minard left the meeting.
Rajiv Rajani left the meeting.
John Henderson left the meeting.
Wes-Smith left the meeting.
The recording for this meeting has ended.
TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com) left the 
  meeting.
Transcriber left the meeting.
Joe Andrieu left the meeting.
Manu Sporny left the meeting.
Raw transcript at 
  https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-vcapi-2024-04-02-irc.log
Raw audio at 
  https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-vcapi-2024-04-02.ogg
Raw video at 
  https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-vcapi-2024-04-02.mp4
The meeting has ended.
