[2020-07-21T16:00:15.099Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:00:26.410Z]	<markus_sabadello>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:00:48.765Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:00:52.073Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:00:58.024Z]	<Sam_Curren>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:00:58.945Z]	<Geun-Hyung_Kim>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:01:07.126Z]	<mprorock-mesur_io_>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:01:19.426Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:01:48.050Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:02:36.606Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:03:09.970Z]	<manu>	Also, Kim did all of the work.
[2020-07-21T16:03:32.470Z]	<heathervescent>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-07-21T16:03:48.247Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Jul/0062.html
[2020-07-21T16:04:13.870Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:04:34.668Z]	<Phil_T3>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:04:46.955Z]	<dlongley>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:04:46.957Z]	<JamesChartrand>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:04:54.490Z]	<manu>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:04:59.552Z]	<brent>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:05:49.807Z]	<heathervescent>	Scribes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit#heading=h.ngyk8y939osi
[2020-07-21T16:06:23.407Z]	<NachoAlamillp>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:06:25.531Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:06:31.452Z]	<by_caballero>	big thanks to markus for scribing
[2020-07-21T16:06:37.189Z]	<markus_sabadello>	scribe+
[2020-07-21T16:06:52.394Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:07:13.472Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: thanks to the scribe on last week's call
[2020-07-21T16:07:32.074Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: Topic: Introductions and Re-Introductions?
[2020-07-21T16:07:34.006Z]	<larinyo>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:07:50.114Z]	<by_caballero>	nacho alamillo
[2020-07-21T16:07:56.498Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: I'm on a team working on eIDAS, now part of a legal team looking at signatures on VCs.
[2020-07-21T16:08:30.092Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: jonathan_holt do you want to re-introduce yourself?
[2020-07-21T16:08:46.427Z]	<NachoAlamillp>	Thans, Chris
[2020-07-21T16:09:05.695Z]	<markus_sabadello>	jonathan_holt: I'm a physician by training, trained in clinical informatics. Worked on a series of companies. Now CMIO at Consensys Health.
[2020-07-21T16:09:30.057Z]	<kimhd>	present+ William_OKeefe
[2020-07-21T16:09:40.715Z]	<anthonycamilleri>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:09:52.291Z]	<markus_sabadello>	William: William from Brussels, project manager on project EuroPass, run by the E.U. commission. Some of my colleagues are also on this call today. We are interested in cooperation between EuroPass and W3C
[2020-07-21T16:10:07.060Z]	<manu>	So awesome to have Nacho and William here on the call today! :)
[2020-07-21T16:10:28.090Z]	<markus_sabadello>	William: EuroPass is project related to skills and qualifications, building tools and standards to implement skills and qualifications across the E.U.
[2020-07-21T16:10:42.689Z]	<markus_sabadello>	William: Our guiding principle is that what we do should be W3C compliant.
[2020-07-21T16:10:53.754Z]	<markus_sabadello>	William: Thanks for inviting us to the call.
[2020-07-21T16:11:40.187Z]	<adamjlemmon>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:11:49.349Z]	<by_caballero>	lluis larinyo
[2020-07-21T16:11:51.478Z]	<gannan>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:11:53.969Z]	<larinyo>	Lluí s Ariño
[2020-07-21T16:11:59.134Z]	<larinyo>	Lluís Ariño
[2020-07-21T16:12:00.332Z]	<markus_sabadello>	larinyo: I am one of the two convenors of the diploma use case. Related to what William introduced, we will use EuroPass.
[2020-07-21T16:12:03.126Z]	<by_caballero>	errrr, that :D
[2020-07-21T16:12:22.778Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: Topic: Announcements and reminders.
[2020-07-21T16:12:23.270Z]	<heathervescent>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-07-21T16:12:58.707Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: markus_sabadello
[2020-07-21T16:13:02.951Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: This is the 6th weeks of Identiverse, I just recorded a video for that. It will go on for another 2 weeks. Registration is free. There are a lot of really cool sessions.
[2020-07-21T16:13:21.153Z]	<JeffO-StL>	Amen to the Henry point of view!!
[2020-07-21T16:13:24.188Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: We have a few recurring CCG meetings. This here is our regular CCG call.
[2020-07-21T16:13:37.819Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: We also have a VC for Education Task Force call, headed by dmitriz and kimhd
[2020-07-21T16:13:54.777Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: We also have DID Resolution calls on Mondays.
[2020-07-21T16:14:07.708Z]	<dmitriz>	I think Heather means someone else - I am merely attending the VC Edu calls occasionally
[2020-07-21T16:14:08.772Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: And the third one is the Secure Data Storage call, on Thursdays.
[2020-07-21T16:14:21.677Z]	<dmitriz>	yeah that's em!
[2020-07-21T16:14:22.776Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:14:23.036Z]	<dmitriz>	me
[2020-07-21T16:14:34.158Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: Sorry dmitriz you are on the Secure Data Storage call, not VC for Education Task Force.
[2020-07-21T16:14:34.949Z]	<heathervescent>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-07-21T16:14:36.170Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:14:40.710Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Action Items
[2020-07-21T16:15:03.569Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: kimhd do you want to give an update on Action Items?
[2020-07-21T16:15:34.748Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Regarding https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/143, we closed that on last week's call, chairs will act on it this week.
[2020-07-21T16:15:35.530Z]	<heathervescent>	Issue 143: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/143
[2020-07-21T16:15:42.411Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/142
[2020-07-21T16:15:55.691Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Thanks to Orie_ , we got some insight into community group licenses.
[2020-07-21T16:16:20.973Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: There are two take aways: 1. We have an increasing amount of work items related on sample implementations. The community license doesn't really cover work like this.
[2020-07-21T16:16:38.574Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: This license is about specs and test suite, but may not be suitable for all implementations
[2020-07-21T16:16:59.394Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Orie_ suggested Apache2, the chairs need to follow up on this
[2020-07-21T16:17:19.849Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: The default LICENSE.md we include in repos is missing the full text of the W3C's recommend CG license
[2020-07-21T16:17:28.492Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: We need to update all the existing repos accordingly
[2020-07-21T16:17:45.567Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: We will try to make it easier to do the right thing going forward, so things are set up correctly
[2020-07-21T16:17:49.618Z]	<Orie_>	yes, thanks to Kim for tracking this down!
[2020-07-21T16:18:05.051Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:18:07.428Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: Thanks kimhd for your diligent follow-up on the licensing topic, this is hard work that gives clarity
[2020-07-21T16:18:20.973Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1R_vM55wQyJ5jiiD6ro3crCFIvC2TGxyZ8_B2t45RXFo/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-07-21T16:18:34.295Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: We will start now with the "Credentials not in JSON topic"
[2020-07-21T16:18:42.095Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Topic: Credentials not in JSON
[2020-07-21T16:18:42.473Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:19:17.468Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: I will go through my slide deck quickly, so we can then get everyone to contribute their part
[2020-07-21T16:19:31.811Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Please open above link, I will walk through it
[2020-07-21T16:19:53.415Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: We had subject matter expects Ignacio Alamillo and Anthony Camilleri who have been very active in this space.
[2020-07-21T16:19:58.840Z]	<markus_sabadello>	s/expects/experts/
[2020-07-21T16:20:19.699Z]	<manu>	Slide 2
[2020-07-21T16:20:28.527Z]	<heathervescent>	Noise?
[2020-07-21T16:20:31.412Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: We have the VC in Educations task force. One of our topics is to come up with examples that can be used in pilots.
[2020-07-21T16:20:31.697Z]	<heathervescent>	voip noise?
[2020-07-21T16:20:35.098Z]	<manu>	voip: noise?
[2020-07-21T16:20:44.369Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: There is however a lot prior work on educational data standards.
[2020-07-21T16:20:46.719Z]	<manu>	voip: mute 1124
[2020-07-21T16:20:57.587Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: But for using these, one challenge is that we need to work with XML
[2020-07-21T16:21:15.107Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: The goal is to try to find possible solutions
[2020-07-21T16:21:36.748Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: In contrast to other use cases, in this are there is a lot of precedent of Linked Data use, e.g. for competencies definitions.
[2020-07-21T16:21:52.407Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: All of this work enables alignment and transferability
[2020-07-21T16:22:18.028Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: One example application is Credential Finder
[2020-07-21T16:22:39.739Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: There is also a lot of precedent in the European Qualification Framework, there is a lot of work on alignment of different levels of achievements.
[2020-07-21T16:22:44.435Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:22:57.092Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: There is also LER Hub, which is gathering resources.
[2020-07-21T16:23:26.669Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: If your degree data is outdated, it limits your capabilities, so this is about empowering people.
[2020-07-21T16:23:39.947Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: The idea that records need to be portable is becoming more important.
[2020-07-21T16:23:52.839Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: There is a lot of existing work in XML, what do we do with it? Two examples.
[2020-07-21T16:24:17.789Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Example 1: EDCI... Mapped the VC data model to XML.
[2020-07-21T16:24:34.994Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Currently VC has two serializations, but it should be possible to support others.
[2020-07-21T16:24:40.377Z]	<manu>	Very happy that EDCI authors are on the call today so we can talk about this... think there is a better solution.
[2020-07-21T16:24:48.838Z]	<manu>	(that is just a slight change from what they're doing)
[2020-07-21T16:24:51.553Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Why did they do it? There are eIDAS digital signature requirements. There's a need to use XML.
[2020-07-21T16:25:04.190Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: VC data model does not currently define an XML serialization.
[2020-07-21T16:25:27.007Z]	<manu>	noooo, XML jamming!
[2020-07-21T16:25:35.449Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Example 2: A common way to express transcripts on the college and high school level. Done in XML.
[2020-07-21T16:25:43.192Z]	<manu>	I mean, XML Jamming works...
[2020-07-21T16:26:03.987Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: In our VC for Education group, what guidance do we give? What's okay as a short time measure?
[2020-07-21T16:26:35.347Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Other options we have not seen yet are mapping XML to JSON or JSON-LD. We haven't seen this yet but it has been discussed. This needs discussion by the standards group.
[2020-07-21T16:27:07.848Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Given there are different requirements, e.g. in the case of eIDAS, this may support one solution over another.
[2020-07-21T16:27:20.647Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: (Showing slide 8 now)
[2020-07-21T16:27:52.630Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Say that we did support XML as a VC serialization. Then what about the legal signature requirements?
[2020-07-21T16:28:07.227Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: I'd like to invite our legal experts to give context.
[2020-07-21T16:28:32.251Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: NachoAlamillp and larinyo ?
[2020-07-21T16:29:12.437Z]	<identitywoman>	present_
[2020-07-21T16:29:15.907Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:29:16.118Z]	<larinyo>	Nacho speaking
[2020-07-21T16:29:29.639Z]	<identitywoman>	can you please re-share the link to she slides :)
[2020-07-21T16:29:38.738Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1R_vM55wQyJ5jiiD6ro3crCFIvC2TGxyZ8_B2t45RXFo/edit#slide=id.g8c7bea63ca_0_68
[2020-07-21T16:29:39.248Z]	<heathervescent>	 https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1R_vM55wQyJ5jiiD6ro3crCFIvC2TGxyZ8_B2t45RXFo/edit#slide=id.g8c7bea63ca_0_68
[2020-07-21T16:29:50.527Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:30:05.867Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: In the EU we have the regulation that supports the movement of legal documents between member states. There is a regulation that define the syntax formats. There are specifications for advanced signatures. If you use any format in the E.U. decision, any member state will recognize it.
[2020-07-21T16:30:28.999Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:30:40.307Z]	<manu>	XADES -- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XAdES
[2020-07-21T16:30:48.470Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: Right now, we have 4 technical formats which are recognized.
[2020-07-21T16:31:02.511Z]	<larinyo>	CADES
[2020-07-21T16:31:10.707Z]	<larinyo>	PADES
[2020-07-21T16:31:31.328Z]	<manu>	CADES -- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CAdES_(computing)
[2020-07-21T16:31:45.293Z]	<manu>	PADES - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PAdES
[2020-07-21T16:31:51.852Z]	<larinyo>	I know Nacho ;-)
[2020-07-21T16:32:13.728Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: You have a lot of freedom to use these profiles with respect to content. You don't have to go through XML serialization.
[2020-07-21T16:32:41.190Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: (Discussing features of the different formats)
[2020-07-21T16:33:00.438Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: It doesn't preclude you from using non-XML formats for the signatures.
[2020-07-21T16:33:24.107Z]	<manu>	JADES
[2020-07-21T16:33:27.356Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: We are also working in EBSI, inside the technical committee, we are working on a new technical specification (JADES - JSON Advanced Electronic Signatures)
[2020-07-21T16:33:27.410Z]	<by_caballero>	!!!
[2020-07-21T16:33:42.773Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: This specification is still non-public, but it may be possible to share it in a limited scope
[2020-07-21T16:33:44.528Z]	<manu>	JADES https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0920548919300960
[2020-07-21T16:34:03.811Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: This is eIDAS in JSON format. We extends JSON Web Signatures by defining additional header parameters.
[2020-07-21T16:34:15.810Z]	<larinyo>	Jades is been work in ETSI (not in EBSI)
[2020-07-21T16:34:20.394Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: We are doing something similar for JWS as we have already done with XML.
[2020-07-21T16:34:30.138Z]	<Orie_>	you can use JWS in LD Proofs..
[2020-07-21T16:34:38.073Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: We can align JWS with eIDAS
[2020-07-21T16:34:55.429Z]	<Orie_>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/lds-jws2020 ( this used detached JWS, which does support a JWS header)
[2020-07-21T16:34:56.013Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: You can use JADES to sign the VC, without transforming it to XML.
[2020-07-21T16:35:10.299Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: You can also use JADES with a special transformation method
[2020-07-21T16:35:22.413Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: We have to wait for JADES to get approved
[2020-07-21T16:35:29.754Z]	<Orie_>	q+ does JADES support detached JWS?
[2020-07-21T16:35:33.875Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: Hopefully we will have a first version of it this year.
[2020-07-21T16:35:44.714Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:35:46.489Z]	<Orie_>	q-
[2020-07-21T16:36:13.838Z]	<larinyo>	EBSI eIdas Bridge
[2020-07-21T16:36:27.211Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: In the regulation, it's also possible to support different methods to validate signatures. We have explored this in the EBSI project, there is work happening on an eIDAS bridge. I have written about this is in my legal report.
[2020-07-21T16:36:37.450Z]	<larinyo>	eIdas bridge: https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/collection/ssi-eidas-bridge/about
[2020-07-21T16:36:49.978Z]	<larinyo>	Anthony speaking now
[2020-07-21T16:36:58.854Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:37:03.171Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:37:13.330Z]	<kimhd>	voip: noise?
[2020-07-21T16:37:19.057Z]	<larinyo>	EBSI: https://ec.europa.eu/cefdigital/wiki/display/CEFDIGITAL/ebsi
[2020-07-21T16:37:30.131Z]	<kimhd>	voip: mute 145
[2020-07-21T16:37:35.852Z]	<markus_sabadello>	larinyo: There is a different between draft standards and it actually being available to public administrations. You would probably talk about 3-5 years of lag before this hits the type of production we are talking about.
[2020-07-21T16:38:02.496Z]	<markus_sabadello>	larinyo: In the meantime, in the meantime, Europe has built its educational infrastructure on XML, e.g. for exchanging student data in XML.
[2020-07-21T16:38:27.168Z]	<markus_sabadello>	larinyo: I've been heading one of those, trying to express VCs and XML
[2020-07-21T16:38:30.613Z]	<larinyo>	4 signature formats: Digital signature : XAdES, CAdES, PAdES and ASiC-S/ASiC-E
[2020-07-21T16:38:36.418Z]	<manu>	q+ to suggest that we need to remove as many complex options as possible and whittle it down to things that don't require a ton of new work.
[2020-07-21T16:39:22.478Z]	<markus_sabadello>	larinyo: The reason I'm giving this information, this is all standardization work. We are aiming for two things. We hope to have an XML recommendation from VC Task Force that would allow us to say that we can be in line using XML, but probably will want to change to JSON over time.
[2020-07-21T16:39:23.370Z]	<manu>	q+ to note that there are two major things that needs to happen here -- 1) clean XML representation/roundtrip, 2) clean signature solution.
[2020-07-21T16:39:26.031Z]	<Orie_>	q+ to discuss XML - JSON-LD transormations
[2020-07-21T16:39:31.331Z]	<markus_sabadello>	larinyo: We are talking about issuing credentials in the millions.
[2020-07-21T16:39:34.587Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:39:44.157Z]	<markus_sabadello>	larinyo: We woud like an XML namespace dedicated to VCs.
[2020-07-21T16:40:10.374Z]	<markus_sabadello>	larinyo: Second, it would be very very nice to be able to have a schema definition file that says this is a recommended implementation of VCs in XML.
[2020-07-21T16:40:17.088Z]	<manu>	q+ to speak to VCWG Maintenance Group and invitation for Anthony, Nacho, and William to participate.
[2020-07-21T16:40:43.278Z]	<manu>	q+ to to speak to VCWG Maintenance Group and invitation for Anthony, Nacho, and William to participate, to note that there are two major things that needs to happen here -- 1) clean XML representation/roundtrip, 2) clean signature solution, and to suggest that we need to remove as many complex options as possible and whittle it down to things that don't require a ton of new work.
[2020-07-21T16:40:43.887Z]	<manu>	q-
[2020-07-21T16:40:45.247Z]	<manu>	q-
[2020-07-21T16:40:46.728Z]	<manu>	q-
[2020-07-21T16:40:55.251Z]	<markus_sabadello>	larinyo: I'm not technical enough to talk about XML vs. RDF/XML, but a high level message is that it will be preferable to have a schema definition recommended by the CG.
[2020-07-21T16:40:59.628Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:41:00.795Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:41:16.270Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Back to you heathervescent for queue management
[2020-07-21T16:41:25.709Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:42:09.933Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Orie_
[2020-07-21T16:42:14.269Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie_: This is really exciting work, I have done some experiments converting JSON-LD VCs to XML and back. Depending on your tolerance, there are mechanisms for converting. There are similar mechanisms for binary representations.
[2020-07-21T16:42:44.994Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie_: We can rely on JSON-LD vocabularies, and then convert to other serializations. The advantage is that you don't have to repeat vocabularies in each seralization, but only have to do it once.
[2020-07-21T16:42:58.088Z]	<mprorock-mesur_io_>	@Orie we are seeing similar things dealing with conversions between xml and jsonld in particular for supply chain and retail legacy formats
[2020-07-21T16:43:01.076Z]	<heathervescent>	ack manu
[2020-07-21T16:43:36.789Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: First, thank you William NachoAlamillp larinyo for being here, this is very important and this group cares deeply. Second, this is the right place, there is a lot of experience in this group, please continue to engage with it.
[2020-07-21T16:44:14.674Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Also, work that happens here (e.g. XML serialization of VCs) can then go into the VC Maintenance WG.
[2020-07-21T16:44:34.330Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Regarding what to specifically work on, I heard each of you mention two primary thigns.
[2020-07-21T16:45:01.849Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: One is a requirement for a clean XML representation. The second has to do with digital signature formats that you just outlined.
[2020-07-21T16:45:23.050Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Ideally we would provide a profile that matches well with XML. One failure scenario would be to try to support absolutely everything.
[2020-07-21T16:45:38.580Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: There would be too many options, we should reduce optionality.
[2020-07-21T16:46:05.332Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: The other important thing, as Orie_ mentioned, a few of us have been working on converting VCs into other formats, e.g. CBOR or XML.
[2020-07-21T16:46:18.230Z]	<NachoAlamillp>	Agree. In fact, the idea of having advanced electronic signature "baseline" profiles is to reduce complexity, yes
[2020-07-21T16:46:18.729Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: There are some common design patterns we can use for full round-tripping.
[2020-07-21T16:46:43.831Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: What we would need to know is feedback on the XML format, what should it look like. And we need to understand the exact requirements for the digital signatures.
[2020-07-21T16:46:48.753Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:46:50.830Z]	<larinyo>	Europass EDCI Data model 0.9.0 https://github.com/european-commission-europass/Europass-Learning-Model/tree/release/0.9.0
[2020-07-21T16:47:21.969Z]	<manu>	Yes, let's keep it simple!
[2020-07-21T16:47:32.129Z]	<kimhd>	I don't have anything, I was just wanting to queue up Nacho and Anthony before they have to drop :)
[2020-07-21T16:47:33.531Z]	<markus_sabadello>	larinyo: If there is openness to support XML, it may actually be quite simple.
[2020-07-21T16:47:35.473Z]	<manu>	For example: Go to XML, use XADES.
[2020-07-21T16:48:16.449Z]	<manu>	q+ to suggest XML-LD + XADES.
[2020-07-21T16:48:18.099Z]	<markus_sabadello>	larinyo: We have a lot of documentation on all of this
[2020-07-21T16:48:42.810Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:48:53.608Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: We should go for JADES for the baseline standard.
[2020-07-21T16:49:19.847Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: We don't believe in issuing VCs in PDF (using PADES)
[2020-07-21T16:49:20.133Z]	<Orie_>	Jades -> detached jws -> ld proof -> xml .... lots of possibilities...
[2020-07-21T16:49:30.870Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:49:36.190Z]	<heathervescent>	ack manu
[2020-07-21T16:49:42.839Z]	<Anil_John>	q+
[2020-07-21T16:49:50.299Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Thanks a lot to kimhd for putting the slide deck together
[2020-07-21T16:49:51.772Z]	<heathervescent>	+1 Thank you Kimhd!
[2020-07-21T16:50:07.149Z]	<by_caballero>	baseline profiles here: https://ec.europa.eu/cefdigital/wiki/display/CEFDIGITAL/eSignature+standards?reload=true
[2020-07-21T16:50:17.070Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: If we can take PADES off the table, that's good since it's one option less we need to consider.
[2020-07-21T16:50:39.567Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Did you say XADES or JADES are already a standard? If we can focus on of those, it should be achievable.
[2020-07-21T16:50:53.292Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Potentially we could even get it on standard track.
[2020-07-21T16:50:56.414Z]	<by_caballero>	XADES = standard, JADES = coming soon
[2020-07-21T16:50:59.254Z]	<NachoAlamillp>	Yes, today's solution should be based in XAdES
[2020-07-21T16:51:02.607Z]	<by_caballero>	if i understood currently
[2020-07-21T16:51:22.447Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:51:25.510Z]	<larinyo>	Right, today: XML+Xades
[2020-07-21T16:51:30.469Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: I'm hearing a strong requirement to encode in XML. If that's a hard requiement, then maybe what we should do is an XML serialization. I'm not sure if this is the preference
[2020-07-21T16:51:37.330Z]	<by_caballero>	(also Manu's explicit pronunciation of X-ADES is helpful :D )
[2020-07-21T16:51:39.356Z]	<markus_sabadello>	larinyo: This was my preference
[2020-07-21T16:51:43.972Z]	<markus_sabadello>	NachoAlamillp: Mine too
[2020-07-21T16:51:54.288Z]	<heathervescent>	ack Anil_John
[2020-07-21T16:52:10.660Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: I want to get a sense from you kimhd if there are any current examples of education credentials, e.g. a university degree.
[2020-07-21T16:52:22.369Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pt-VNnjoYgl23Mlu0Tjyax5RgANPBfDijERz0SNYfSo/edit
[2020-07-21T16:52:31.611Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: We are about to come out with a prize competition for a digital wallet UI, I've been talking to U.S. Department of Education.
[2020-07-21T16:52:41.908Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-07-21T16:52:47.370Z]	<kimhd>	q+ to respond
[2020-07-21T16:53:00.855Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: I'm a student looking for an employer. The employer needs both a Permanent Resident Card, and a University degree.
[2020-07-21T16:53:20.176Z]	<heathervescent>	ack kimhd
[2020-07-21T16:53:20.837Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: We have already worked on the Permanent Resident Card, but I'm looking for an example of a university degree.
[2020-07-21T16:53:34.073Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pt-VNnjoYgl23Mlu0Tjyax5RgANPBfDijERz0SNYfSo/edit
[2020-07-21T16:53:42.378Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Unfortunately no good examples exist yet, but this document above.
[2020-07-21T16:53:51.490Z]	<markus_sabadello>	s/but this/but see this/
[2020-07-21T16:54:24.537Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: People from the relevant bodies are very supportive and are helping us going through the data modeling process. The understanding has to be that anything in here is a draft.
[2020-07-21T16:54:39.529Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: The other goal is allow pilots to be unblocked and get started.
[2020-07-21T16:54:44.327Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:55:20.890Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: Also thank you from my part to everyone who spoke and contributed today.
[2020-07-21T16:55:34.269Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Topic: Updates on Secure Data Storage on DIDComm
[2020-07-21T16:55:36.020Z]	<Sam_Curren>	yes
[2020-07-21T16:56:03.018Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie_: The SDS Working Group is a joint effort between W3C and DIF. The purpose is to support the concept of data storage that's associated with DIDs.
[2020-07-21T16:56:26.295Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie_: The use cases are things like storing wallet contents, storing things associated with a DID, sharing access between DIDs.
[2020-07-21T16:56:37.088Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie_: It's a generic data structure, not limited to DIDs.
[2020-07-21T16:57:07.079Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie_: The work is ongoing, there have been two primary input documents. 1. Encrypted Data Vault spec at W3C CCG, 2. Identity Hub spec developed at DIF.
[2020-07-21T16:57:30.171Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie_: Those are similar in some ways, different in other ways. The SDS Working Group is still working through the differences, the interfaces, etc.
[2020-07-21T16:57:47.446Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie_: EDVs are for storing encrypted data. Identity Hubs have a lot of public data use cases.
[2020-07-21T16:58:10.292Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie_: We will eventually see deeper integration between those interfaces and other standards happening out there.
[2020-07-21T16:58:17.270Z]	<Sam_Curren>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YiL-A9YaNgQpFBraJJOLLUPyFfZ6uQ1uqtTCiDZxNqI/edit#slide=id.p
[2020-07-21T16:58:34.292Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Sam_Curren: See this link for a a quick overview of the DIDComm Working Group
[2020-07-21T16:58:53.687Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Sam_Curren: Provide secure communication with trust rooted in DIDs. This originated in Hyperledger Aries.
[2020-07-21T16:59:14.116Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Sam_Curren: We've made good progress. See slide 4 for a layer map.
[2020-07-21T16:59:24.527Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-07-21T16:59:39.428Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Sam_Curren: Related work includes JWM, ECDH-1PU
[2020-07-21T16:59:54.352Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Sam_Curren: It's transport-agnostic, can work via HTTP, WebSocket, QR Code.
[2020-07-21T17:00:21.835Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Sam_Curren: Last slide, join us on our calls, we have recordings.
[2020-07-21T17:00:39.700Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: Thanks all for the call, next week we will have a presentation by GS1.
[2020-07-21T17:01:34.548Z]	<manu>	voip: connections?
[2020-07-21T17:01:38.753Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 1113
[2020-07-21T17:01:44.153Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 112a
