Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-03-14-vc-education/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-03-14-vc-education/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC for Education Task Force Transcript for 2022-03-13

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2022Mar/0003.html
Topics:
  1. IP Note
  2. Call Notes
  3. Introductions & Reintroductions
  4. Announcements & Reminders
  5. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI)
Organizer:
  Simone Ravaoli
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Simone Ravaoli, Irene Hernandez, Tim Bouma, Kimberly Linson, John 
  Kuo, Deb Everhart, Juan Caballero, Adam Lemmon, Andy Miller, 
  Taylor, Jim Kelly, Dmitri Zagidulin, Kayode Ezike, Nate Otto, 
  Samuel GÃ³mez, David Chadwick, Matt Lisle

<simone_ravaioli> Ciao Irene  :wave:
<simone_ravaioli> @Irene - we cannot screen share as it likely 
  will cause Jitsi's scribe to fail (we need it for the minutes).   
  If you have a presentation to share could you make it available 
  online and share the link in the chat ?
Irene Hernandez: https://docsend.com/irene8
<irene> This link is to see in real time what I would be 
  projecting
Simone Ravaoli: :+1:
<john_kuo> US Time change strikes again
<simone_ravaioli> Looking from my EU colleagues...
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Simone Ravaoli:  Alright hello everyone ciao Tutti this is Simone 
  at this is the w3c verifiable credentials education task force 
  today is Monday March 14th and we are gathering together as we do 
  every week at this time to address issues around verifiable 
  credentials and education today I'll be your host.
Simone Ravaoli:   We also have the mint.
Simone Ravaoli:  With us as my coach are in the audience Kerry 
  will not join us fortunately plea but should be able to watch the 
  recording like everyone else.

Topic: IP Note

Simone Ravaoli:  Let's go through the boilerplate things and then 
  dive into the content for today's all right here we go so IP 
  nodes anyone is free to participate in our calls however any 
  contributors that is adding to our ccg work must be a member of 
  ccg with full IP our agreement signed in you have linked to the.
Simone Ravaoli:  And circulated the agenda you need to ensure 
  that you have w3c account and that you sign the community 
  contributor license agreement.

Topic: Call Notes

Simone Ravaoli:  Now it's the meaning the minutes and the audio 
  recording of everything that is said here are archived online and 
  we normally use the chat here or IRC to queue up Spears to cure 
  yourself up just add q+ whether you are following from Jitsi or 
  from IRC.

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

Simone Ravaoli:  All right so that takes care of it let's see if 
  we have anyone new to our call so let's proceed with 
  introductions or reintroductions anyone that is new just feel 
  free to unmute and just briefly introduce yourself.
Simone Ravaoli:  All right looks like pretty much we have the 
  regular Sierra we do have a couple of guests but they'll have 
  time to introduce themselves very very shortly.

Topic: Announcements & Reminders

Simone Ravaoli:  To announcement and reminders is anyone aware of 
  anything happening that the whole group should be aware to please 
  open up your mic and share now.
Simone Ravaoli:  I'm right apparently not this is great just you 
  know if anything comes to mind feel free to unmute and share 
  later so today's main topic is exciting I think it's you know an 
  opportunity for the group to take a look at some interesting 
  developments coming out of Europe around verification and 
  specifically we have a couple of guests are going to present.

Topic: Verifier Universal Interface (VUI)

Simone Ravaoli:  Our Universal interface I'm extremely happy to 
  have EU colleagues here at Irena and Jose from can in Spain 
  they've done an incredible amount of work to support the European 
  blockchain service infrastructure in Europe but also just the the 
  SSI ecosystem and I think we are honoured that they are with us 
  today we look forward to hear from them and also for them to stay 
  engage with this particular group.
Simone Ravaoli:   Hope so.
Simone Ravaoli:  Further Ado I would ask it Anna to come up mute 
  introduce yourself and please take it away thank you again for 
  being with us.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Thanks to Mom can you hear me can you 
  hear me properly.
Simone Ravaoli:  I can't yes.
Simone Ravaoli: https://docsend.com/irene8
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Well thank you everyone for inviting me 
  today to talk about our work over the over the past year 2021 
  mainly just a brief introduction about myself I'm the CEO at 
  Gattaca which is a company that builds SSI technology we've been 
  working as someone was saying very closely with the FC team first 
  helping them Define the technical specs and also engaged in a 
  few.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  projects with me.
<simone_ravaioli> ^^ Slides that Irene will be presenting
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): States and other organizations also 
  higher education institutions on the academic diploma use case so 
  that's why our presence here may be most relevant to this group 
  but today I'm here to talk about our efforts at the very fire 
  Universal interface which is an interoperability working group 
  that was framed within the S if lab project as if lab is part of 
  the Next Generation.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  in Internet program funded by the.
https://docsend.com/irene8
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Action we received a grant to work over 
  a year on an interpretability project with an hour our proposal 
  was to build the verifier Universal interface let me explain what 
  that is this image May well if you're looking let me paste again 
  here the link to the chat for those present so the in this link 
  you will be seeing in real time what I'm presenting.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  I'm so pleased.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): To join that and after the presentation 
  I will share a link so that you can download the presentation so 
  no need to take notes but in an Essence the buoy is essentially 
  these what you're seeing here and this team this image seems 
  probably is very familiar to most of you so today as different 
  technology providers are building a society technology what we 
  realized is that sure we all agree that interpretability between 
  these Solutions is mandatory because if not we're running on the 
  left hand.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  side of the equation with kind of 
  stand-alone line.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Alone solutions that try to fill the 
  gaps of interoperability or standardization and there has been 
  incredible work around standardization so far but we have a long 
  way to go so what we try this to see where these gaps where and 
  try to fill in so we could move on to an Ideal World which would 
  be the right hand side and try to be as simple as user-friendly 
  as possible and in this whole SSI ecosystem.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  so what we.
<simone_ravaioli> To follow the slides - 
  https://docsend.com/irene8
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Intended with the way is to build a set 
  of standard apis literally apis to enable interoperability 
  between ID wallets and verifier components and these all from the 
  lens of the verifier component hence the title verifier Universal 
  interface what in an Isis we wanted to do is for any wallet to be 
  able to interpret with anybody fire component and the other way 
  around that is a role Centric approach.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  roach to standardization at API level.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): And what we did is to think okay for 
  wallet needs to percent verify credentials to a verifier what 
  does the verifier have to do to actually verify that information 
  and this is this question let us to define a minimum set of six 
  apis for that validation to happen and these are the apis that 
  you're seeing on screen presentation exchange that is what it 
  means to give those verifiable.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  Essentials to a verifier we.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Is perhaps a more European perspective 
  but we hadn't added consent management how there is an agreement 
  that they'd agreement between what the holder and the Very fire 
  on how the data will be treated and then a verifier once this 
  entity has the information they need to perform a set of 
  validation like what are the public is associated to those the 
  ideas whether that issue were issuing the.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  profile credentials are legit.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Title to issue those type of 
  credentials they need to resolve the scheme has to in order to 
  understand the information contained in the referral credential 
  and they need to be able to resolve the status of such credential 
  so those were the main the six main apis that we defined as a 
  minimum set necessary to actually perform a credential validation 
  process and what we did well let me skip this super Quay what we 
  did is first a brief survey of.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  and the community to understand what 
  would be the priorities.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): But most important here is the kind of 
  the work housekeeping rules that way the design constraints that 
  we defined prior to working on defining those apis first we were 
  working based on the ideas verify credentials I'm very final 
  presentations as defined in the SS reconstruction definitions and 
  this seems obvious but there were some discussions at the 
  beginning whether the IDS should be included or not as what does 
  an assumption on the specs.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  also that these apis.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Be valid for mobile wallets and that 
  was resulting from the fact that all of the surveyed companies 
  are using an offering mobile ID wallets for SSI implementations 
  and we believe that when we are developing technology actual 
  technology on top of Standards their specific this time 
  constraints derived from the fact that it is a mobile app that 
  should be taken into account when defining those apis also.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  very important for us was to reuse as 
  much of the.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Is that were.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): It's possible we didn't want to Define 
  yet another standard yet another you know complementary work to 
  other working groups out there so what we did at the beginning is 
  to review all the working groups from DFW three Consortium 
  everything that was out there to try to recover as much as 
  possible and built on top for instance the presentation exchange 
  API builds completely on top of this presentation exchange yes by 
  suggesting.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  being extensions same with the ID 
  resolution no.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): No sense to the find something else 
  when there is a very mature data resolution spec already and also 
  we wanted to be as independent of Technology as possible 
  independent of the other methods of leaders of Technology of use 
  cases etc etc be as generic as possible so with these design in 
  mind and with the survey that I mentioned at the beginning we 
  prioritized three apis that definition of three apis presentation 
  exchange is for restoration.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  and consent management also also named 
  data agreements.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): And we let schema resolution for a 
  later stage a face to approach and the ID resolution is better 
  resolution exactly as they were defined in the W3 Consortium 
  specs and let them manage from there because they were already 
  very comprehensive but we saw a few gaps in the other four and we 
  decided to start with three out of the four remaining apis and 
  what I'm going to explain a little bit today now is the results 
  in each one of the three.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  apis very briefly and then I will 
  provide you.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Link so you can read a comment please 
  help on maturing this and making them accessible to the whole 
  Community yes to mention that from the working group perspective 
  we were 12 organizations working on this we were distributed in 
  different roles that were implementers and integrators 
  implementers were the ones responsible for defining actively 
  defining those apis and integrators committed to integrating 
  those apis into their own.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  G Stacks so if you want to join.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Our next step is to donate all of these 
  work to the diff which is an ongoing process hopefully in the 
  next month or so we'll be finished and the idea is to continue 
  the work from there so if I deep dive into Data agreement here 
  basically what we realized with data agreements is that there is 
  in current SSI architecture there's literally very little support 
  for consent management.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  endured at agreements.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): And this is perhaps very intrinsic to 
  European mindset and really PR but in reality we stay very 
  important to include within a presentation exchange protocol an 
  option at least to establish those data agreements between a 
  holder and a verifier when we looked at existing work we realized 
  that there was some ground work done by qantara with their 
  consent receipts but they were.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  were they could be applied to any 
  digital.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): We're not very specific to us as I 
  Frameworks and we had our own company had developed our own 
  specific verifiable consent data model and protocol but really no 
  proposal worldwide had received may your adherence and so when we 
  were working at the SF lab there was another project called the 
  automated data agreement led by I grant I owe that built on top 
  of Cantara consent receipts to allow.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  data privacy Mecca.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Some but to be enforced in the 
  framework the framework of hyper Ledger areas and given you know 
  the strong alignment between their goal and our goal with the 
  content management API we decided to join forces and build 
  something that was a little bit more generic Beyond hypervisor 
  areas framework and so we built a single initiative between Iran 
  Tayo and ourselves and so what we built is this respect basically 
  it's a dance.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  data model the respect proposes that 
  the.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): To manage data agreements that are 
  built on top of automated at agreements and Cantera consent 
  receipts so they're all kind of compatible it's just building 
  upon and it also defines a protocol and the mechanisms to embed 
  these data agreement into a presentation exchange which could 
  then be supported by multiple exchange standards.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Um we also in the presentation exchange 
  what we worked is we knew there were a lot of effort in this 
  specific API what we did is to focus on the Dave's presentation 
  exchange data model which was when we were looking at it by far 
  the most widely accepted perhaps because it's compatible with 
  multiple exchange protocols such as choppy Datacom they desire 
  this HTTP a HTTP API.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  is etcetera Etc.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): It is instead of trying to build 
  everything from scratch we took that as a groundwork and try to 
  analyze what should be added or changed and in an Essence what we 
  did is to propose three additional features one is the linkage to 
  the data agreements I mentioned before the second one was support 
  for Mutual authentication which is basically to enable a holder 
  to know the source of a presentation definition.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  so to validate so to speak.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Source of of that verifier so avoid 
  facing problems improve the user experience when presenting that 
  into a wallet and to add additional security especially when 
  we're changing Channel channels and using the The Cure reading 
  mechanism and the third additional feature that we proposed wear 
  mechanisms to improve the link between the credential subject the 
  ones they did in the presentation.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): The person managing the wallet which is 
  very important when we're talking about illegal use cases or use 
  cases where you need to abide to some legal framework so those 
  were the three kind of add ons that we proposed and we can see 
  that also in the in the respect I will send the links later and 
  at this point what we did is when we implemented this API we 
  provided support for the ID sign up as a starting point.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  although it should be able to support 
  any.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Communication protocol really and 
  finally which is the issue resolution so when we looked at the is 
  wrestlers and one of the major challenges we saw in SSI models is 
  how to trust the Easter of credentials what is this trust 
  framework I should use and in SSI really is a verifier of 
  responsibility to decide which trust framework to trust which 
  issuers they want or are.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  are willing to trust or not.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): And there were many different trust 
  Frameworks there are really from technical level vertical level 
  National versus regional levels there are many different crafts 
  Frameworks depending on the specific use case so what we wanted 
  to do here is really to take a step back on all of these 
  different tribes frame words and Define a super generic approach 
  to quit worrying whether an issuer is part of.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  of a specific Trust.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Work and there were many initiatives 
  when we started building the extra resolution API fraunhofer was 
  working on train week was working also on a specific Discovery 
  and interoperability Yellow Pages type of initiative piano with 
  their credential catalog and one of the most advanced ones that 
  we saw was the FCS if project with their trust framework which 
  has been evolving over the last couple.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  couple of years so what we did is to 
  do.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Posey's API that could be compatible 
  with any of those trusts Frameworks and we actually test it 
  against the absolute framework and our own proprietary trust 
  framework to see if it could work with and Trust framework so 
  those were the results in terms of delivery is what we did is to 
  build the specifications those were delivered in respect you have 
  here the links there is kind of an umbrella spec which is the 
  very fire Universal interface and then.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  then we have some respect one for each 
  of the apis.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): We also documented the apis as Waggers 
  you have there the the to apa documentation links and finally 
  very important what we try to do is to build an open source 
  Library where other Technologies could try Implement those apis 
  in a fast way it's not it doesn't offer the complete 
  functionality of a verifier relief but it does offer all the core 
  implementation of these apis.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  yes so that may be very.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Of you that want you to test and try 
  out those apis so next steps for us really do you want to join 
  please do so we have a groups that I owe our mailing list we meet 
  every couple of weeks if you want to be an implementer and 
  contributing to the definition of those apis very very welcome we 
  want as many voices as possible included in this specs definition 
  if you just.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  to be an integrator we're trying to 
  give you the tools so.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Regarding the tools that we've already 
  provided would be very welcome and the ideas I said at the 
  beginning was to migrate all of these to give very shortly so if 
  you are a dismembered you will also be able to contribute very 
  very easily that's all I wanted to explain today about the 
  verifier Universal interface thank you for listening if you have 
  any question please shoot.
Simone Ravaoli:  Thank you Irena thank you very much for the 
  great work so I wonder if anyone has any questions.
Simone Ravaoli:  It ain't it at this point.
Simone Ravaoli:  All right David please go ahead Maybe.
Simone Ravaoli:  Do you have any.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): There was now implicit question into 
  the explanation David thank you for clarifying.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Absolutely I mean we're all about 
  enabling interoperability between all the efforts so definitely 
  invite you to check what the extra resolution APA looks like it's 
  very simple honestly so I think an integration should be fairly 
  straightforward.
Simone Ravaoli:  Thank you David thank you here and I did have a 
  question which is something that has come up before and also now 
  I know it was asking and mailing list in the question is how does 
  the verifier Universal interface aligns with the verifier API in 
  verifiable credentials.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Please go ahead thanks.
Simone Ravaoli:  I wonder if anyone in the group has a response 
  to Jose has to open question around August work happening it was 
  stiff in w3c in that respect I know many of us are kind of 
  participating in both groups let me Dimitri maybe just call out 
  to you I mean if you're available to me are you aware of any this 
  kind of effort happening you have any.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Enter in terms of unifying the diff 
  presentation exchange API and the w3c VC API.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah that there are there multiple teams that 
  participate in both and for example or with transmute has done a 
  lot of work in both the presentation exchange API and is active 
  in the VC API Group I'm in the same place so I think there is a I 
  think there's a lot of interest in aligning the two and I 
  definitely encourage the Gattaca and Universal verifier 
  interface.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Ace team.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Join the VC API calls or or if not open an 
  issue on the VC API spec and say okay these are the things we 
  need to extend to have the universe of their fire API support VCH 
  okay so definitely encourage everybody to participate.
Simone Ravaoli:  Thank you Dimitri anyone else any as any 
  comment.
Simone Ravaoli:  Be one way that we could follow up in this 
  conversation is I think man who had posed that question on our 
  mailing list so Isaiah maybe if you just want to reply to that or 
  you know as chair as we're happy to facilitate that conversation 
  and which may lead to more specific actions like the material 
  suggesting.
Simone Ravaoli:   So it feels.
Simone Ravaoli:  Torque is right about the it's happening the 
  fact that you're donating it to this crystallized its value but 
  we want to make sure we do we try to keep things and some kind of 
  alignment as we move forward.
<nate_otto_(@ottonomy)_badgr/csky> Simone, I can't unmute at the 
  moment, but could I ask for an updated link to the specs? 
  https://gitlab.grnet.gr/essif-lab/interoperability/verifierapis 
  the link from here to the ReSpec documents isn't working
Simone Ravaoli:  Check in the queue I'm I'm wondering you 
  mentioned the connection to trust Frameworks right have you 
  looked at any other existing trust Frameworks you know that it 
  means say I'm looking at in a team Boma he's here in the called 
  Canada's an incredible amount of work on the pan-canadian trust 
  framework is that something that you have had a look at it 
  anymore who's that at all.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Not the Canadian press framework 
  honestly for say we what we've been looking as I mentioned we 
  looked at crane so some generic initiatives and from building 
  trust Frameworks and then on specific implementations which was 
  the FCS if trust framework which is actually in pre-production 
  already and what we try to do is make sure that it worked with 
  all of them and be as generic as possible.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  so in theory.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Work with any trout stream were what we 
  would like us to test it against as many trust Frameworks as 
  possible so the Canadian could be a very good starting point.
Simone Ravaoli:  Great thanks and and Tim is on the Q so let him 
  respond thank you Tim go ahead.
Simone Ravaoli:  Tim please go ahead would you like to unmute you 
  cannot hear you if you are speaking.
Simone Ravaoli:  Well I did see is Playing Tricks on audio often 
  so that may be the case I guess it's a suggestion if you wanted 
  to try to log in through a Safari browser mean if you really 
  willing to go through that household or anything else that you 
  want to share in the chat because at the moment we're not hearing 
  you.
Simone Ravaoli:  Meanwhile I wanted to direct your attention it 
  in and has led to the fact that Nate is signaling that the link 
  there is a broken link effectively so if you could double check 
  on it from the risk factors.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Yes the link the link was really okay 
  yeah if you could report that will be more than happy to fix 
  that.
<simone_ravaioli> Nate Otto (@ottonomy) Badgr/CSky
Simone Ravaoli:  Okay I'm just I just copy and paste Nate's 
  commenting on the channel yeah.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Did you take note of that.
https://gataca-io.github.io/verifier-apis/ this link to the 
  respec is broken github pages
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Good thanks and by the way I'm standing 
  now I link to the presentation so you can download it with all 
  the relevant links.
Simone Ravaoli:  Great yeah that would be very useful and we'll 
  make sure to add this to the minutes and and circulate this info 
  with a wider group.
https://docsend.com/view/5286hck33ecndznn
Simone Ravaoli:  So here and I mean I wanted to ask you I mean 
  since we have a bit more time if you could maybe share maybe a 
  bit more about your experience in working in the you know in the 
  EPS ecosystem you know as part of one of the leading I guess 
  organization is also been recently labeled as one of the first MC 
  conformant wallet is there any highlights of you know could share 
  from your stud earrings trying to build up that.
Simone Ravaoli:  Is the European ecosystem around.
Simone Ravaoli:  Was infrastructure there and the role verifiable 
  credentials.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): I'm not sure what's the main focus of 
  interest of this working group regarding our experience there 
  what I can do is just briefly explain.
Simone Ravaoli:  The UK's Department maybe yeah so the focus on I 
  know you're piloting you were one of the early adopters 
  supporting one of the early adopters so the use case diploma 
  would be I guess most most relevant for this group.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Okay so one of the work we've been 
  doing with a few early adopters is working typically there to use 
  cases that member states another organizations are implementing 
  one is what they call SSI in general but in reality what they 
  were talking about is about issuing national identity credential 
  by the relevant National.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  it that.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): And of the national ID like the the 
  driver's licenses in the United States for instance or any other 
  national ID so that verified credential that is somehow Genesis 
  credential for then issuing an authenticating that specific 
  citizen into services or or in order to download other type of 
  credentials so that's typically the starting point and then the 
  way they make use of that credential.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  Lynn early adopters.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Project is to implement or to use the 
  credential to authenticate a student into a higher education type 
  of scenario the typical scenario is to download an academic 
  diploma so I identify myself as a citizen using the national ID 
  credential issued by my National Authority and then I access my 
  universities portal and I download my academic diploma and I 
  authenticate myself.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  self using that that verifiable.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Which is in the jargon of of hep C 
  there are other use cases in the higher education space that 
  we've worked on which involved cross-border scenarios one of them 
  is very interesting what they do is they involve there is a 
  Consortium of eight universities to start their to universities 
  involved in the project and what they do is it's University is 
  using student IDs using verifiable credentials to set of students 
  and then those students.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  what they do is in Europe probably 
  many of you know there are a lot of.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Opportunities where you can go and 
  study a semester abroad in any other university well what they do 
  is to implement those cross-border scenarios where students move 
  temporarily to a another University they do a semester there and 
  then they go back to the university and complete their studies 
  these in reality like how it works today is a nightmare in terms 
  of paperwork because the destination University needs to receive.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  save transcript of record.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): It's of the University of origin verify 
  that that's true and then issue new transcript of records with 
  the new signatures or subjects that are studied in that 
  destination University and the that packets needs to be brought 
  back to the home University so today it's a really a nightmare 
  and verify your credentials could help so the use cases involves 
  that we're all of these transcript or records are issued in in 
  the format of a verifiable credential and actually in abscess 
  trust scheme.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  ah registry there is already a schema 
  for a transcript.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Implement these use case as a we've 
  implemented that how a student essentially gets his or her 
  student ID and then downloads his transcript of Records goes to 
  the destination University download presents or accesses the 
  destination University resources using his or her or you know 
  student ID and then once that person completes the studies 
  downloads new transcript of records and brings them back to the.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  the home University and presents all 
  of that information in.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Come see us in brief filed by the chips 
  that's the other use case we've been actively working on and then 
  in parallel to all of these work with universities and 
  governments across Europe what we've been doing is validating our 
  wallet to be AB c-- compliant or Absecon format as they as they 
  say there is a they recently released to the public their AB c-- 
  conformance test which anyone can now access and try to.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  to implement it is.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): It is a fairly simple process if you've 
  been engaged in Epsom specs if not you have to read a lot of 
  technical specifications and there they were very simple at the 
  beginning now they're trying to automate everything and it will 
  be mandatory to pass these tests for it and it may your what it 
  really is but that's a starting point to enable interoperability 
  among what it providers.
Simone Ravaoli:  Thank you here in it and Dimitri's on the Queue 
  Dimitri please go ahead.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks yeah this this use K sounds really 
  exciting I wanted to ask do you by any chance have a link to the 
  documentation to the data model of the student ID credential.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): I think this is not public information 
  but let me see what I can get.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I've thank you so much the reason I ask is 
  with the DCCC wallet where we're also starting to work on a 
  student ID use case and it would be great if our data models 
  could interrupt so we'd love to be able to interrupt with your 
  wallet.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Okay let me just try to get the whether 
  that data model for student IDs I'm transcript of records are 
  public domain and if so I'll be more than happy to forward it to 
  your door to the whole globe working group no problem.
Simone Ravaoli:  Injury I have a follow-up question myself so it 
  ain't it is how does the data model for a transcript that you're 
  using compared to what is happening or being used inside the 
  europass products of the the your best learner Mobility is there 
  a relationship between the two initiatives in technically I mean 
  from your perspective.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Yes absolutely within the European 
  commission are very aware that there has been already a lot of 
  efforts in Europe has but also the universal student while the 
  European student ID sorry so actually the student ID schema for 
  the refile credentials have been concentrated and built upon the 
  work that was already there and in agreement with all member 
  States involved in.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA):  AB c--.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): So yes there is alignment between what 
  was existing clear to FC in terms of data models and what is 
  being defined for the schemas within the SSI ecosystem.
Simone Ravaoli:  All right great so I'm wondering if this Tim 
  Boomer would you like to unmute give it a try again.
Simone Ravaoli:  Loud and clear sir go ahead.
Simone Ravaoli: https://canada-ca.github.io/PCTF-CCP/
Simone Ravaoli:  Thank you Tim.
Simone Ravaoli:  Okay so no one in the queue any other curiosity 
  or what's happening in Europe from from the group here.
Simone Ravaoli:  Well if not I think we might be in a position to 
  close early this week and as as I said we'll follow up in the 
  mailing list showing some of the links and maybe presentation 
  that it ain't made available today and look forward to continued 
  to just keeping I guess different regions connected in terms of 
  the development so it feels like.
Simone Ravaoli:  There is well.
Simone Ravaoli:  They are concurrent initiatives around whether 
  it's wallets or verification procedures or even trust frame so 
  this group here like all the others that are working on the same 
  issues you want to stay abreast of what's Happening possibly if 
  you so that we work on the interrupt players across the 
  difference in the different initiatives.
Simone Ravaoli:  All right so just as a note next week you know 
  for the Europeans are called we will see meet at 4:00 p.m. 
  Central European Time and for the next couple weeks until we also 
  switch times so if you have the calendar inviting your calendar 
  that there should be no problem and so we'll see everyone next 
  Monday at 4:00 p.m. Central European Time or 11.
Simone Ravaoli:   A.m. eastern division.
<taylor> Thank you!
Simone Ravaoli:  Check the queue once again making sure we don't 
  leave anyone behind there you go all right thank you everyone for 
  being here see you next week ciao.
Irene_Hernandez_(GATACA): Thank you all.
Simone Ravaoli:  Thank you very much here and I thank you it was 
  a long to have you.
