Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-11-01/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-11-01/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2022-11-01

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Nov&period_year=2022&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Harrison Tang, Reuben, John Henderson, Mike Peck, Anil John, Alan 
  Karp, Gregory Natran, Rebecca Busacca, Territorium, Orie Steele, 
  Torsten Lodderstedt, Phil L (P1), Leo, Greg Bernstein, Mike 
  Prorock, Kerri Lemoie, Kaliya Young, Will, Erica Connell, Shawn 
  Butterfield, Markus Sabadello, Dmitri Zagidulin, Joe Andrieu, 
  Kimberly Linson, Keith Kowal, Daniel Buchner, Jonathan Bethune, 
  TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Brent Zundel, 
  John Kuo, Lucy Yang, PaulDietrich GS1, Gerard Iervolino, Manu 
  Sporny, Brian Campbell, Jeff O - HumanOS, David I. Lehn, BrentZ, 
  Steve Magennis

<phil_l_(p1)> Need background mood music ;-)
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: Recording is on.
Harrison_Tang: So welcome everyone to this week's w3c ccg meeting 
  this week we will have Daniel and I think Orie you are going to 
  also help talk about the open Wallet foundations is that correct.
Harrison_Tang: Sounds good exciting topics so before we get to 
  the main agendas just want to do a quick call notes first of all 
  just want to remind everyone about the code of ethics and 
  professional conduct just want to make sure that everyone when 
  they leave their comments acknowledge and respect each others we 
  don't need to agree right agreement acknowledgements are 
  different but that's make sure that we acknowledge each other IP 
  note anyone can participate in these.
Harrison_Tang:  these calls however.
<bencrus> Consultations with all those who benefited from the 
  platform that I shared yesterday. Believe it or leave it!... 
  (full message at 
  <https://matrix.org/_matrix/media/r0/download/matrix.org/NyhIfrBNROGoCQVKgwjvmXnh>)
Harrison_Tang: all substansive contributions to any CCG work 
  items must be member of the ccg with full IPR agreements signed 
  so I've sent out those links in the emails agenda emails just 
  click click on those things and ensure that you have a w3c 
  account quick on notes the meeting minutes and audio recordings 
  are can be found on the w3c ccg GitHub page and we use the jitsi 
  chat tool here to
Harrison_Tang: queue the speakers during the call so you can type 
  in Q+to add yourself to the queue or q- remove yourself to the 
  queue from the queue.
Harrison_Tang: All right just want to get to the introductions 
  and reintroductions I see couple new folks here so if you don't 
  mind just unmute and then kind of introduce yourself or know if 
  you have not been active in the community and just rejoining you 
  can reintroduce yourself as well.
Harrison_Tang: Don't be shy.
Greg Bernstein:  Hello this is Gregg Bernstein can you hear me.
Greg Bernstein:  I am new relatively new to the group I've been 
  teaching cyber security and web programming at Cal State 
  University East Bay but prior to that I did a lot of work on 
  optical networking and Optical networking standards at the ietf 
  but got very interested in verifiable credentials all the crypto 
  that goes with it and the apis and such when covid hit and.
Greg Bernstein:   I was teaching and we had to transfer online so
Greg Bernstein:  Trying to see where I can help out good to meet 
  everyone.
<john_kuo> Hi Greg, I'm also in the East Bay
Harrison_Tang: Sounds good welcome Greg welcome to the community.
Harrison_Tang: Anyone else any other introductions 
  reintroductions.
Harrison_Tang: I'll do the call out at the end of meeting as well 
  next announcements and reminders.
Harrison_Tang: Kaliya do you want to do a quick IIW announcement.
<daniel> Is anyone speaking? I don’t hear anything
<orie> yes people are speaking.
<dmitri_zagidulin> @Daniel - yes, people are speaking. try 
  another device / browser
Kaliya Young:  Yeah we've got the internet identity Workshop 
  coming up November 15 to 17 in Mountain View California if you 
  have not registered yet and you are coming you need to register 
  we will fill up so please do that we have open ID Foundation is 
  having meetings on Monday the jff
Kaliya Young:   Folks are meeting on Monday.
<daniel> Ok
Kaliya Young:  The vrm folks are meeting on Monday ….. is having 
  a happy hour on Monday so lots of activity is happening around 
  IIW and yeah if you and I also think we still have a couple 
  diversity and inclusion scholarships available so reach out I'll 
  put my email in chat thanks bye.
Harrison_Tang: Thanks Kaliya other announcements and reminders.
<kaliya_identitywoman> kaliya@identitywoman.net
Harrison_Tang: Any updates or questions on the new work items or 
  any new work items that people want to bring up.
Harrison_Tang: All right one quick thing so last week Kimberly 
  has mentioned about like we're going to start a little task group 
  to talk about refining our mission statements and you know the 
  the community's emissions and things like that so the you know if 
  you’re interested in joining
<brent> /me I can't get any audio
Harrison_Tang: those conversations and working group please just 
  let us know just email the chairs co-chairs.
Harrison_Tang: Any other announcements and reminders.
Harrison_Tang: Alright so let's get to the main agenda.
Harrison_Tang: By the way Daniel were you able to get the get the 
  audio working.
<daniel> I don’t hear you and when I dial in the system 
  disconnects the line
Harrison_Tang: Daniel Alright maybe Orie can do the presentations 
  for them.
<daniel> Trying the web now
Orie Steele:  I certainly can speak I think he says I don't hear 
  you when I dial in system disconnects the line hopefully he will 
  try a different web browser do we have any ideas about which web 
  browsers work the best with jitsi.
<greg_bernstein> Firefox works
Harrison_Tang: I'm using Chrome right now on the Mac and it's 
  working fine.
Orie Steele:  Yep that's what I'm using as well.
Mike Prorock:  Working fine for me.
<paul_dietrich_gs1> safari on MAC works too
Torsten_Lodderstedt: I'm using Safari on iPhone and works well.
Orie Steele:  Okay hopefully Daniel can hear these wonderful 
  suggestions.
Daniel Buchner:  I did not but I was able to get it to work on 
  Safari my apologies for the late entry I had in one of the 
  invites I had a zoom link and then for some odd reason the app 
  didn't work but really glad to be here.
Orie Steele:  Daniel do you plan to share the deck or would you 
  like me to.
Daniel Buchner:  Given my technical problems I think it's much 
  safer if you do.
Orie Steele:  I will go ahead.
Harrison_Tang: Yep I'll do a quick background so the so for those 
  who didn't see the email thread w3c ccg around September 20th we 
  have emails thread around the open Wallet Foundation which is 
  under Linux foundation so there's an announcement on that and 
  there was a good thread going on and I thought it's a it's a it 
  would be a good idea to invite Daniel and also Orie kind of 
  talked about.
Harrison_Tang:  the open wallet.
Harrison_Tang: foundation and their good work there or the work 
  that they will be doing in the coming month and in the future you 
  know I think the premise and also the philosophy behind the open 
  wallet foundation I think all of us in the communities are 
  definitely behind and supportive of and I think it's good for I 
  think a lot of people in the community would be interested to 
  learn more about it so now without further Ado just want to kind 
  of have Daniel and Orie.
Harrison_Tang:  kind of speak to that thank you.
Daniel Buchner:  Thank you very much and thank you again for the 
  kind invitation I would like to tell you a little bit about the 
  Genesis the history how we started I want to tell you what our 
  goals are and specifically what we're not trying to do and the 
  reasons behind some of the early decisions that we took and then 
  I'm really happy that Orie.
Daniel Buchner:   Is joining the.
Daniel Buchner:  Conversation because he knows both about the 
  open Wallet Foundation as well of course about the ccg and I 
  think he will be able to do a much better job than me to explain 
  why he's there and what some of the areas might be that are 
  probably relevant for both ccg and open wallet.
Daniel Buchner:  Orie if I could ask you to go to yes thank you 
  the next slide so let's start with maybe a brief history of open 
  Wallet it's really a very young initiative we started discussing 
  the idea at money 2020 in Amsterdam only in June of this year so 
  less than half a year ago and basically organized the meeting 
  with a couple of the European Bank identity schemes
Daniel Buchner:  And discussed the idea of potentially investing 
  together in building blocks that would allow us to create a 
  wallet together more quickly and at a lower cost and that meeting 
  went really well and after it was over I returned to money 2020 
  and by chance ran into Marie head of digital identity for Visa in 
  Europe.
Daniel Buchner:   Who had already heard about.
Daniel Buchner:  That meeting and asked why Visa wasn't invited 
  and I was thrilled of course to hear that Visa might be 
  interested in this and a couple of weeks later at Identiverse in 
  Denver Microsoft suggested that they may have an interest in this 
  as well it was also Microsoft that was the first company.
Daniel Buchner:  To suggest that maybe we should not start with a 
  clean sheet of paper and create a new organization from scratch 
  but rather work with an existing organization that one has 
  know-how in how to build open source code and be ideally be an 
  organization that some of the companies that are interested in 
  shared source.
Daniel Buchner:  Code would already have a relationship with and 
  this is really what led us to approach the Linux foundation and 
  basically pitched the idea to create the open Wallet Foundation 
  as a chapter of the Linux Foundation similar to how kubernetes 
  works or you know maybe more recently pie torch in the meantime 
  we have more than 300 companies.
Daniel Buchner:  And nonprofits that expressed an interest in 
  participating I heard today that the number is now actually over 
  350 companies and nonprofits and I'm really happy not just with 
  the sheer number of interested parties but the diverse mix we 
  have some very large companies that are part of the discussion 
  including the ones I mentioned MasterCard Microsoft Visa.
Daniel Buchner:   But also.
Daniel Buchner:  Accenture and Norton Avast and you know folks 
  like Ping Identity for instance and OCTA of 0 but we also have 
  much smaller startups and you know Orie can probably tell you a 
  little more about that but also folks like Spruce for instance 
  and nonprofits like the organization that is open sourcing the 
  technology behind
Daniel Buchner:  At heart an organization in India called mosop 
  as well as folks from I spirit and nonprofits that are not 
  primarily in the software space but in areas that I think will be 
  will come in very handy for instance the open identity exchange 
  or trust over IP foundation so a very diverse mix and this is 
  really part of what we're trying to do in terms of.
Daniel Buchner:   Building a bigger tent.
Daniel Buchner:  Now on the next slide you see actually what 
  we're trying to achieve with the open Wallet Foundation what 
  we're trying to do is to create building blocks that allow anyone 
  to publish a wallet and of course we want these wallets to be 
  secure ideally interoperable and multi-purpose what we mean by 
  multi-purpose is that we believe from the.
Daniel Buchner:   Perspective of end-users.
Daniel Buchner:  Wallets will in many situations maximize the 
  value for customers if they are not one-trick ponies that Focus 
  just on Identity or just on driver's licenses or just on NFTs or 
  or cryptocurrencies or just on car keys but ideally act almost 
  like a Swiss army knife and just like physical wallets and to a 
  lesser extent the native.
Daniel Buchner:   Mobile operating system wallet.
Daniel Buchner:  Enable a plurality of use cases in a seamless 
  fashion and taking advantage of many different formats and 
  Technologies very specifically we are trying to focus only and 
  exclusively on open source software so the open Wallet Foundation 
  isn't a standardization organization we're not trying to compete 
  with the w3c.
Daniel Buchner:  Or the Decentralized Identity Foundation or the 
  open ID Foundation or trust orp we really want to focus 100% on 
  software and equally importantly we are not planning to publish 
  our own wallet the reason being that we think that some of the 
  existing companies that are interested in open wallet and 
  hopefully some of the companies that may find the open Wallet 
  Foundation to be appealing in the future may very.
Daniel Buchner:  Well be interested to create their own wallets 
  and we don't want the open Wallet Foundation to be seen as 
  competing with the interests of at least a subset of the 
  membership of the open Wallet foundation with that I'd like to 
  pass the virtual microphone to Orie to give you a little more 
  details.
Orie Steele:  Awesome can you all hear me I think I'm unmuted but 
  it's been a while since I spoke.
Orie Steele:  Awesome so I thought I would share why transmute 
  you know why I'm interested in participating in the open Wallet 
  Foundation you know how we think about the owf scroll versus the 
  other organizations that you might be aware of or that we've been 
  engaged in before why we feel that a new organization has a has a 
  use and value in this ecosystem and I’m going to.
Orie Steele:  Focus on the two organizations that I participate 
  in the most in which is the w3c ccg and w3c formal working groups 
  and the decentralised identity foundation and and both of these 
  organizations we've seen standards incubation we've seen test 
  Suites being developed crypto suites being developed and some 
  open source software along with some of these standards track.
Orie Steele:   Documents that are headed for you know a formal.
Orie Steele:  Standards process and just speaking from personal 
  experience at the decentralized identity foundation and within 
  the w3c ccg managing open source software is is not a thing that 
  in general Works super well in my opinion for either the w3c ccg 
  or dif and what I mean by that our content projects large 
  projects with a significant.
Orie Steele:   Amount of contributors.
Orie Steele:  It's difficult to manage them and they tend to be 
  very focused you know at DIF on Identity or in the credentials 
  community group on credentials and wallets are open source 
  software things that need to interact with both of these I would 
  say one of the projects at DIF that's done really really well in 
  open source is the universal resolver ….. Tech you know that 
  that.
Orie Steele:   Is a good example.
Orie Steele:  Of a DIF.
Orie Steele:  Project that has a large open source software 
  development you know initiative and engagement and it's in fairly 
  healthy at decentralized identity foundation and there are other 
  projects that dif has that are open source that aren't specific 
  to wallet activity and similarly at the ccg there are then 
  there's Links at the end of the slides to some of these open 
  source software components or standards related to wallets that 
  are have been incubated.
Orie Steele:   At the w3c ccg.
<dmitri_zagidulin> hoooooo wow... go Stable Diffusion
Orie Steele:  So just to paint you a picture of what identity and 
  credentialing standards looks like today on the left is stable 
  diffusions idea of what standards organizations deliberating on 
  identity standards looks like and on the right are a number of 
  logos for organizations you might be a part of where you might be 
  engaged in today and these aren't all standards organizations 
  some of them are open source software communities some of them 
  are formal standards organizations some of them are.
Orie Steele:  Community groups and each of these organizations on 
  the right has a sort of focus for the most part and that those 
  focuses don't always lead to having the right folks in the room 
  for digital wallets and I think it's the the Linux Foundation can 
  help create a sort of shared common ground for some of these 
  digital wallet building blocks and through.
Orie Steele:   Collaboration and open source.
Orie Steele:  We can make improvements that extend beyond the 
  sort of Open Source software that we see supporting some of these 
  emerging standards today.
Orie Steele:  So I wanted to share with you some of the 
  preliminary architecture to paint a picture of the way that you 
  know currently thinking about open Wallet architecture and the 
  the left hand side has some AI generated images of wallets with 
  various digital items in it and on the right you see our 
  preliminary architecture diagram and the important thing I think 
  to notice here is this middle Center band.
Orie Steele:   On digital objects and.
<mprorock> dall-e 2 deliberation on decentralized identity (so as 
  not to give stable diffusion all the credit) 
  https://labs.openai.com/s/7VwP3nVTZxpmPy9Bi4XZD6Aj
Orie Steele:  This really speaks to what Daniel is saying before 
  around the need to have wallets that aren't just single trick or 
  narrowly focused but to have wallets that can support digital 
  identity tickets digital car keys digital assets tokenized credit 
  cards financial instruments the digital representations of these 
  sort of physical Concepts and giving users a set of building 
  blocks giving developers a set of building blocks to build.
Orie Steele:   Experiences for.
Orie Steele:  Users that aren't limited to just a single digital 
  object type thing and then the other piece I'd like to draw your 
  attention to is this protocols layer and you know full disclosure 
  of being these are preliminary architecture diagrams we've just 
  been discussing the ecosystem as we've been able to sort of 
  explore it and one of the things that we've seen is that you know 
  it's not.
Orie Steele:   Enough to have support.
Orie Steele:  For digital objects but you need to have ways of 
  exchanging them you need to have an understanding of the 
  protocols that when and standards that might be relevant to 
  moving these digital objects around in an interoperable way and 
  so when we think about you know wallet modularity or wallet 
  architectures there's the digital objects into the data modeling 
  layer and some of the the work that has happened within the w3c 
  ccg and the w3c.
Orie Steele:   Applies to that data modeling layer so for example 
  decentralized identifiers.
Orie Steele:  Verifiable credentials as you know digital objects 
  or systems that are managed as digital objects within a digital 
  wallet and then there's these protocols which have to do with you 
  know transacting between a wallet and a website or between an 
  issuer and a holder in the context of some of these w3c standards 
  so again this is just a preliminary architecture but I'm 
  hopefully painting a picture.
Orie Steele:   That that is inclusive of several things that have 
  been.
Orie Steele:  Very that been developed at w3c and some things 
  that haven’t been developed at w3c you know specifically digital 
  Asset Management digital car keys tokenized credit cards some of 
  those things that you haven't necessarily seen being led within 
  the w3c but that are very relevant to digital wallets.
Orie Steele:  So I wanted to share some work in in the context of 
  work that's happened within the w3c that might be relevant to the 
  open wallet foundation and basically to share some of these sort 
  of components that we've been working on speaking for transmute 
  and I guess measure and mavin that to some extent we've been 
  working on supply chain traceability issues and essentially the 
  interoperability tests that we've been developing for.
Orie Steele:   Supply chain traceability with decentralized 
  identifiers.
Orie Steele:  And verifiable credentials are a test of a kind of 
  cloud wallet for supply chain and we have an open source 
  implementation which we've been using to help pass some of those 
  tests and to also inform architectural decisions around them and 
  this speaks to components that are standard track sort of 
  documents around the data model and the apis removing the data 
  model around that are relevant to the.
Orie Steele:   Digital Wallet work but the digital Wallet work 
  isn't the place to do that standards.
Orie Steele:  Work we have open source software that supports 
  this and so I wanted to share these test results and some of 
  these links to these projects because there's a chance that some 
  of the components that we're using to build and support these 
  interoperability tests could be you know in the future donated to 
  open wallet foundation in a modular way so that any wallet 
  implementer could support some of these interoperable data models 
  or the interoperable apis.
Orie Steele:   Around exchanging them.
Orie Steele:  And with that the last links are just the links to 
  the links Foundation announcement the architecture task force 
  repo in the open Wallet Foundation GitHub and then there's some 
  links to some w3c resources that have informed some of those 
  conversations so in particular that Universal wallet interops 
  spec has a lot of overlap with the core mission of open Wallet 
  Foundation the VC API is one of these apis that support those 
  interoperability.
Orie Steele:   Tests that I just showed the VP request spec and 
  the.
Orie Steele:  Credential Handler API are mechanisms for 
  exchanging verifiable credentials between a holder wallet and a 
  verifier website and so these are these are building blocks that 
  could be relevant to the protocols layer or to the data modeling 
  layer with the open wallet foundation and there could be open 
  source that supports these standards and standards track drafts 
  at the w3c ccg that might be contributed to the open wallet 
  foundation and that could lead to increased adoption of these 
  standards.
Orie Steele:  And with that I'm happy to stop presenting and 
  answer any questions that we have.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you Orie thank you Daniel.
Harrison_Tang: Any questions please just type in a q+ and add 
  yourself to the queue.
Manu Sporny:  Yes yep thank you Daniel thank you Orie for that 
  presentation really helpful to kind of understand what owf is 
  planning on doing before I say the rest of this stuff I just want 
  to make it super clear that I'm very very supportive of the 
  vision for open Wallet Foundation I think the vision is great I 
  think it's solid yes.
Manu Sporny:   Absolutely we need.
Manu Sporny:  Open-source building blocks to support not only 
  digital wallets but you know moving all these credentials around 
  and so I think that's a fantastic wonderful Vision it is the 
  execution on that Vision that I remain skeptical of again I hope 
  you're successful in achieving the vision that said usually Linux 
  Foundation programs the really.
Manu Sporny:   Successful ones.
Manu Sporny:  Have an open source project that has already taken 
  off something that has been released three or five or ten years 
  ago it has a really strong open-source following and it needs a 
  home and then it's moved into Linux Foundation right in open 
  Wallet foundations case what we're looking at is kind of design 
  by committee architecture group that's going to create this open 
  source code from day one and you've got 350 organizations.
Manu Sporny:  All involved in that process.
<orie> Be the change you want to see in the world manu :)
Manu Sporny:  Right I think I've never seen that pulled off 
  before what I've typically seen is you know the closest thing 
  would be like the openstack work where the large amount of that 
  was written by Rackspace and IBM and then and then contributed so 
  so that's the first thing is this feels like it's going to become 
  a design by committee open source project and we need to 
  understand that there are already.
Manu Sporny:  Open source projects that exist out there for doing 
  verifiable credentials and mdl and all that kind of stuff like 
  there are existing pieces of software that people have put effort 
  into in I'm not quite understanding why those other programs are 
  not being supported more since they do have usage and people are 
  using them that's the first concern the second concern is around 
  what typically happens in these situations like Everyone likes 
  to.
Manu Sporny:   Say Hey you know chromium is an open open code 
  base.
Manu Sporny:  Anyone can contribute to it right but in reality 
  it's Google you're going to hit some Google internal Google team 
  where Google has hired all the open source developers that work 
  on that part of chromium in in order to get it into chromium or 
  get it shipped you are looking at going through a large 
  multinational corporation to get your stuff in there so I'm not 
  saying it's a bad thing like you know chromium exists webkit.
Manu Sporny:   Exists and it's a good thing.
Manu Sporny:  But you shouldn't underestimate how Linux 
  Foundation is used in order to create something open source but 
  still maintain kind of corporate control over the over the open 
  source tool so this this is a this is an argument for diversity 
  and open source implementations not to have a monolith open 
  source implementation again I want to make it very clear that 
  very supportive of the vision.
Manu Sporny:   It's just I have not.
<mprorock> /me thinks that is a bit cynical - and that has not 
  been my experience (not that i am not possessive of a healthy 
  degree of skepticism in big tech)
Manu Sporny:  Seen something attempted in this way that has led 
  to you know a successful outcome that's it.
Daniel Buchner:  No thank you very much for the kind critical 
  feedback which is really appreciated let me maybe try to respond 
  to the first point first I think you yourself mentioned that 
  there are a lot of Open Source projects already and when we look 
  at the landscape of you know everything from verifiable 
  credentials to anon creds to.
Daniel Buchner:  Tokenized payment cards you know credit cards 
  and debit cards to car keys to room keys there is a lot of Open 
  Source work going on already and the idea is not to throw that 
  away on the contrary the idea is to start with building blocks 
  and identify building blocks where code already exists so let's 
  take ISO mdl just as an example there is already open source 
  code.
Daniel Buchner:  Available for Android to the best of my 
  knowledge there is not or at least not a great open source 
  Library available for iOS today so the idea is not to say let's 
  start in a vacuum but rather to take stock and look at what's 
  available and then try to bring individuals and organizations 
  together who have an interest in code for iso mdl and then.
Daniel Buchner:  Agree how a good implementation on Android and 
  iOS that is truly open source and is adhering to all the 
  standards to the best extent possible how such a code base would 
  look like and then we're trying to do the same thing for 
  tokenized debit cards and credit cards where we we’re really 
  fortunate that companies like MasterCard and Visa who worked on 
  emdes and Vitas are interested to.
Daniel Buchner:  Be part of that work so we're trying to get 
  again organizations and at the end of the day people together to 
  suggest a really good implementation for tokenizing payment cards 
  and the idea is not to do that pop down for an executive director 
  or a board to say those are the projects and you know if you 
  don't like them too bad but rather to have this approach bottom 
  up.
Daniel Buchner:   So if you care about iso mdl.
Daniel Buchner:  Or if you care about something that you know no 
  one has mentioned yet the idea is that everyone can get together 
  create a building block and for that building block to become 
  part of the open Wallet code what we hope to be able to do is 
  over time find commonality between those building blocks and you 
  know there are so many people on this call who are so much more 
  technical than I am that I'm I don't want to make suggestions but 
  just you know.
Daniel Buchner:   As an example maybe the different.
Daniel Buchner:  Groups the different building blocks can agree 
  on programming languages or maybe they'll agree on shared Key 
  Management over time or maybe they come to identify a couple of 
  principles like you know agility when it comes to crypto and try 
  to say well it would be great if all the building blocks would 
  live up to some of these principles and the goal really is that 
  the board.
<keith_kowal> Will OWF include wallet UI / UX?
Daniel Buchner:  Will do as little as possible and for as much as 
  possible to work bottom up rather than top-down.
Daniel Buchner:  And you know having said that this is still you 
  know something that was born in June it is still not formalized 
  so you Manu anyone else on this call if you have a better idea if 
  you care about wallets if you care about a plurality of wallets 
  we are really looking for feedback and for constructive criticism 
  to see how we can on the one hand take advantage.
Daniel Buchner:   Of the work that has been done.
Daniel Buchner:  Already and on the other hand trying to bring 
  you know different and and in some cases almost violently opposed 
  camps together which is one of the things I really like with the 
  metaphor of a browser engine because in a browser engine like 
  blink you have a lot of different internals right you have HTML 
  and you have web IDL and you have I don't know that the 
  JavaScript V8 engine.
<orie>        > Will OWF include wallet UI / UX? 
Daniel Buchner:   And you would never say let’s.
Daniel Buchner:  Drop HTML over V8 or vice versa and my hope is 
  that we can do the same thing that we can actually have a really 
  good implementation for w3c verifiable credentials and a an 
  implementation for car keys and for tokenizing you know credit 
  cards and debit cards and maybe anon creds and for those to 
  become components so that if you want to publish a wallet and 
  you're interested in many of these buildings.
Daniel Buchner:   Blocks that we make it easier for you to 
  basically.
Daniel Buchner:  Take those.
Daniel Buchner:  Building blocks and make them part of your of 
  your wallet.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah no I just wanted to jump in you know kind of 
  personal hat on first which is awesome cool I think this could 
  potentially be really useful and I've had you know kind of a gut 
  desire at some point to see something to an equivalent of open 
  ssl as a Swiss army knife and tool kit and common set of 
  libraries now that I also have security concerns and stuff like 
  that but a common set of libraries.
Mike Prorock:   For working with the kinds of things that we work 
  with.
Mike Prorock:  Whether it's verifiable credentials or dids Etc 
  and there's been a lot of good work from a lot of companies on 
  this I've contributed code to some of them personally right and 
  as a company certainly we've got folks contributing to that and I 
  think pass this along to Orie obviously but any of the code we've 
  contributed to did act or other things like that very happy to 
  donate those ….. foundation I think it can be potentially very 
  helpful at least as good foundational typescript and JavaScript 
  examples not that we use them.
Mike Prorock:   In production but it is something we actively 
  test against and validate and try to improve over time so that 
  the community has a .
Mike Prorock:  Good example set so.
Orie Steele:  Well that love that snipe at JavaScript Mike keep 
  it coming.
Mike Prorock:  No problem you know I can't help it and if you 
  don't know that's totally a good fun back and forth with Orie on 
  the JavaScript side but but yeah it's it's something definitely I 
  would support of and wanna see you know continue and will 
  continue to help any way we can so that's personal hat off now 
  and going to chair hat which is how is ccg chairs aside from 
  making sure we're bringing you guys in to talk about what's going 
  on what's actually.
Mike Prorock:   Going on what are the goals how can we help 
  support.
Mike Prorock:  Right because a lot of this is providing solid 
  Implement ultimately I think provides solid implementations of 
  the things we work on here at ccg elsewhere in you know w3c and 
  also IETF dif etcetera right so basically what are some feedback 
  and concrete thoughts actions from Daniel from Orie etcetera as 
  far as how the ccg can help.
Daniel Buchner:  Well I think you are already helpful you know by 
  starting with criticism and saying you know out loud what you 
  think is not ideal and so I really appreciate you know Manu’s 
  feedback I have spoken with him before and I think we will only 
  get better if people are you know criticizing criticizing what 
  they what they dislike in addition to that I think there are.
Daniel Buchner:   Two areas where we are.
Daniel Buchner:  At the moment looking for input and for feedback 
  one is we are really trying to get this duocracy going and 
  basically get folks together to take a look at the existing four 
  building blocks that were identified again those are payment 
  tokens Iso MDL verifiable credentials and anon creds and anyone 
  around those four areas if.
Daniel Buchner:   You feel that there is code base that.
<orie> (and DIDS : )
Daniel Buchner:  Should be used as a starting point and or if you 
  are a developer or have a developer to spare and are interested 
  for that developer to add to any one of those building blocks 
  please make yourself heard we really want this to be your 
  project.
Daniel Buchner:  If you feel that there is a building block 
  missing and I certainly feel there are a lot of building blocks 
  missing please feel free to suggest them and try to find 
  like-minded people who either have code and or developers to 
  spare in order to make sure that that building block exists and 
  on the governance side and on the more strategic side you know if 
  you have a proposal for.
Daniel Buchner:   How to create something that.
Daniel Buchner:  Is as useful as possible for the broader 
  Community even if it's not pertaining to particular code but and 
  you know overarching principle we want to hear that as well we 
  haven't Incorporated the foundation we hope to do that either at 
  the end of this year or hopefully in the first quarter of next 
  year so it's still something that is formidable we can change it 
  based on the feedback that we receive and we are really Keen to 
  hear any and all well meant feedback.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you Orie you have the floor.
Orie Steele:  So I'm queued to just to mention one area where 
  your feedback is really appreciated and that's and if you think 
  about the different protocols that might perform similar 
  behaviors and informing the open Wallet foundation on the 
  traction that these different protocols have in the market and 
  the order in which we might want to see open source 
  implementations of them supported so for example with.
Orie Steele:  Verifiable credentials there's the VC API there's 
  open ID connect there's chapi there's didcomm they each of these 
  has a role or has a set of capabilities that might facilitate 
  parts of that verifiable credential triangle between issuer 
  holder and verifier and we see a lot of potential redundancy in 
  these different protocol pieces and a wallet might implement
Orie Steele:  Several of these protocols to be interoperable so 
  that you know regardless of which issuer or verifier you go to 
  you have a way to get your digital objects into your wallet and 
  get them out with your wallet to present and you can imagine 
  scenarios where maybe you got a verifiable credential from an 
  open ID connect flow but you're presenting it over it didcomm 
  flow or things like that those are standards that exist out there 
  today and that you can Implement support for.
Orie Steele:   But the order in which the open Wallet Foundation 
  addresses the.
Orie Steele:  Open source software that supports them is a 
  function of who will do the work and that's and that's an area 
  where I think folks in this community could really engage super 
  positively to support protocols that you are passionate about 
  that you know have you know adoption in the market today that 
  would provide value to your platform if you're you know setting 
  up an issue and safety with the VC API for example maybe you want 
  to provide some open source software that allows a older wallet 
  to.
Orie Steele:   Receive credentials from it that's the kind of 
  activity where I think this.
Orie Steele:  Community could really help move the needle and 
  increasing the adoption of some of these w3c standards that we 
  believe you know are going to help provide greater authenticity 
  for digital actors and digital wallets generally that's it.
Harrison_Tang: Thanks Orie Mike.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah no that that was very helpful I want to ask 
  just since mdl has been brought up a few times and then also just 
  kind of thinking about the question that Orie just brought up as 
  far as like protocol overlap and things like that right there’s 
  the end doc versus VCs I mean there's there's a lot of contention 
  there for a lot of good reason I guess the question I have around 
  the mdl side specifically is do you have any concerns about 
  licensing or licensing.
Mike Prorock:   Standards from ISO and providing implementations 
  and then probably.
Mike Prorock:  More importantly.
Mike Prorock:  Do you have any concerns about providing a wallet 
  you know framework or tooling around wallets that could be or 
  have you gotten Clarity for instance from Apple around their 
  patent that just came out of that ….. use of mdl at you know 
  checkpoints and things like that which is like a very core wallet 
  like that patents really broad right so are there concerns from 
  your side there or their concerns for Linux Foundation there.
Mike Prorock:   Or have you received or could you help receive 
  potentially some.
Mike Prorock:  Commitment from Apple around defensive use as 
  opposed to offensive use of that patent any insights there.
Daniel Buchner:  So the simple answer are we concerned or am I 
  concerned is yes.
Daniel Buchner:  I think most people on this call are probably 
  sharing your concern I believe that this is one of the reasons 
  why something like the open Wallet Foundation is a good thing I 
  believe that almost every company and nonprofit and government 
  shares an interest in a plurality of secure interoperable wallets 
  and probably inherently dislikes the idea of any one company or 
  institution.
Daniel Buchner:  Trying to monopolize the wallet space we have 
  seen companies trying to use wallet as choke points either to 
  extract money or to extract data and I believe that wallets 
  should be neutral digital public infrastructure and in a world 
  where some companies see this differently I believe it is 
  especially important that those forces.
Daniel Buchner:  That disagree and that think that wallets are 
  not a place to make money either directly or indirectly should 
  get together and you know can I offer you a guarantee that we are 
  able to convince any company to do something they may not want to 
  do no there is no such guarantee but.
Daniel Buchner:  If the question is are we better off trying to 
  bring.
Daniel Buchner:  Essentially the entire world that is interested 
  in a plurality of wallets together even if that world may 
  disagree to in technical terms which formats and which protocols 
  to use and are we better off if such a coalition could become a 
  better partner for governments as well because governments have 
  now a third choice not just to work with the.
Daniel Buchner:   Winners of the mobile operating.
<mprorock> Chair Hat on: would love Anil's response to this last 
  statement from Daniel
Orie Steele: +1 Daniel, if we are successful nearly everyone will 
  benefit from it.
Daniel Buchner:  System Wars or to try and create a wallet 
  Monopoly for themselves as governments but rather to work with 
  what is hopefully going to become a very broad Alliance of 
  companies nonprofits and government together to create more of a 
  Level Playing Field I believe the answer is yes this is going to 
  help almost everyone in this field and this is why we have car 
  companies and we have Healthcare companies and software.
Daniel Buchner:   Companies and travel companies.
Daniel Buchner:  And of course companies in the you know narrow 
  identity space as well as credit card schemes and Banks because 
  even though their interest is vastly different they look at 
  wallets and are interested in wallets for very very different 
  reasons we all share a desire and the conviction that wallets 
  must not become choke points.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you Daniel Manu.
Shawn Butterfield: +1 Daneil
Mike Prorock: +1 Daniel !!! (chair hat off)
Manu Sporny:  Yeah plus 1 to that Vision Daniel I think it's a 
  those are fantastic points and again the completely on board with 
  the division in my takeaway there is that owf will then also be 
  involved in intellectual property concerns around patents in 
  copyright and all variety of other things that's that.
Manu Sporny:   That you'd have to be in in order to.
Manu Sporny:  Deliver on that that Vision which I think it's fine 
  right because w3c and IETF they're involved in patent concerns 
  and copyright concerns and things of that nature it's impossible 
  to avoid one of the thing I queued myself though was a different 
  question it was around whether or not you've considered funding 
  the people that are already writing the open source so rather 
  than you know ask for.
Manu Sporny:   For us to come into owf and contribute .
Kaliya Young: +1 <3 To what manu is saying
Manu Sporny:  To some new open source project or new library 
  thing like that my understanding is that owf is going to try and 
  raise a significant amount of funding and we do know that there 
  are a number of Open Source developers that exist out there right 
  now that are building software and tooling for our ecosystem that 
  are effectively reaching into their own pocket to pay themselves 
  right and so what we have done meaning ….. has done over the 
  years is we have funded these open source developers we've tried 
  to pay them.
Manu Sporny:   You know we tried to scrape together money to kind 
  of pay each one a certain amount to implement.
Manu Sporny:  Feature by feature and the reason that at least we 
  do that is because we don't feel like there is going to be one 
  platform or one open source Library or one anything that's going 
  to be able to achieve the support that the market needs every 
  organization has has their preferences around programming 
  environment and programming language and so you know I think 
  you're going to have to support many different open source 
  packages that effectively do the same thing but in different.
Manu Sporny:   Different programming environments I have you have 
  you considered you know what.
Manu Sporny:  Percentage of the revenue to owf you would redirect 
  towards open source developers that are already working on those 
  programs.
Daniel Buchner:  So this is one of the key questions I think and 
  the way we are trying to answer that question is basically by 
  saying first of all how you know what are the building blocks 
  that we believe as a community are important and some of them 
  will overlap some of them may be pretty unique but what are those 
  building blocks step number two understand what is the available 
  code base and can we simply use that code or is there work to.
Daniel Buchner:   Be done.
<orie> Part of the answer is, we can't advocate for a building 
  block we don't know exists, which is why we are gathering active 
  projects and reviewing them together now.
Daniel Buchner:  And then to understand what is work that is 
  happily done by community members the basic theory is that the 
  open Wallet foundation will play as a foundation the smallest 
  role possible but wherever there are gaps we need to identify 
  those gaps so my hunch and it's just a hunch is that there will 
  be areas where there's probably a lot of code and maybe even a 
  lot of developers and there may be other areas.
Daniel Buchner:   That we all feel are.
Daniel Buchner:  Really critical and important to address but 
  there's probably not a lot of code and not a lot of developers 
  and not a lot of companies that are interested to do something 
  and this is an area where I believe we need to do exactly what 
  you suggest namely to ensure that there are funds available that 
  can be used to entice people to provide important work that no 
  one else would do otherwise.
Daniel Buchner:  So this is not a perfect answer I cannot give 
  you a dollar amount and I cannot tell you exactly what that work 
  is going to be but I can and want to invite you and everyone else 
  on this call as well as anyone else who you think should be part 
  of the conversation that isn't all ready to weigh in and try to 
  identify what can be done by the community and where we will have 
  gaps and what the required funding is to address those gaps.
Daniel Buchner:  In order to ensure that the open Wallet 
  Foundation comes up with a.
Daniel Buchner:  Solution that is truly helpful.
Daniel Buchner:  And we've by the way changed that so when I say 
  that we're looking for for feedback we started initially with a 
  model or with the idea that most of the development would be done 
  by the foundation itself and we saw quite a bit of interest from 
  different companies to provide and donate code as well as 
  developers and and basically change the model a little bit to say 
  well if there is an area where we can.
Daniel Buchner:   Can rely on existing code and on.
Daniel Buchner:  Developers that are very familiar with that code 
  working at you know companies like Visa or maybe you know a card 
  company for for the CCC car keys to rely on those and basically 
  build on what's built and really focus on the gaps.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you and by the way Daniel I have a question 
  in regards to kind of how this relays to hyper Ledger Aires 
  because hyper Ledger Aries are I believe is also open source 
  Wallet so is open Wallet Foundation going to work with Hyper 
  Ledger Aires or is it a complete separate thing.
<orie> There is also "Aries Bifold".
Daniel Buchner:  Yeah I would hope that Aries is going to become 
  one of the building blocks of the open Wallet engine or whatever 
  you know we'll end up calling it but I also hope that it's going 
  to be you know just quote unquote one building block so I believe 
  when you look at wallets holistically when you look at them from 
  the perspective of what physical wallets are able to do when you 
  look at.
Daniel Buchner:   You know all the things that something like an 
  Apple wallet.
Daniel Buchner:  Or a Google Wallet is able to do I believe that 
  it wouldn't be enough to Simply say let's you know use Aries as 
  the end-all-be-all solution but conversely it would be tragic if 
  open Wallet would not have an Aries building block so my hope is 
  that we are able and this is why you know we call this a bigger 
  tent the hope really is to be able to
Daniel Buchner:  Create something that is very useful to Aries 
  but something that is equally useful to a lot of other companies 
  a lot of other nonprofits a lot of other people with slightly 
  different ideas and in some cases even opposing ideas and allow 
  for different building blocks to co-exist to over time work 
  better together and then eventually enable the flexibility for 
  any publisher of a wallet to choose the building.
Daniel Buchner:   Blocks they want to use depending on.
Daniel Buchner:  The use case and probably in some cases also 
  depending on the geography.
Harrison_Tang: Cool thank you any last questions from the 
  community.
Harrison_Tang: All right I just want to say thank you again 
  Daniel and Orie for a great presentation on Open Wallet 
  Foundation I think if you don't mind just send me the deck if 
  it's a if it's okay for the public to review and I'll send it to 
  reply back to the agenda that I sent out last week.
Orie Steele:  Sure yeah I can I can follow up with that.
Daniel Buchner:  Thank you very much for the invitation and if 
  you want to be on the mailing list just go to 
  openwallet.foundation and if you leave your contact details there 
  you are on the mailing list and will be invited to all the open 
  Wallet meetings.
Daniel Buchner:  Thank you very much.
Harrison_Tang: Great and then I will also send a follow-up email 
  Daniel and then you can send me those information I will reply 
  back to the thread as well alright we only have one minute left 
  any last introductions reintroductions announcements or 
  reminders.
Harrison_Tang: Alright thank you and then just a quick reminder 
  next week we won't have a meeting because actually sorry next 
  week we will have Christina and the Microsoft team to talk about 
  the entra verified ID and then the the week after that the 
  meeting is canceled because of the internet identity Workshop.
Harrison_Tang:  all right thanks a lot.
Harrison_Tang: Have a good one bye.
