[2020-02-03T16:05:16.046Z]	<Uli_Ga>	Hi, can someone point me to an application I can use to join the call via pc?
[2020-02-03T16:06:18.276Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Hello everyone !
[2020-02-03T16:06:18.289Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: Intro to the task force and members
[2020-02-03T16:10:41.327Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-02-03T16:10:52.418Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-02-03T16:11:09.227Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-02-03T16:11:23.930Z]	<tzviya>	present+ Tzviya_Siegman
[2020-02-03T16:11:29.055Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-02-03T16:11:55.381Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:11:56.794Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:12:00.222Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:12:04.034Z]	<adamjlemmon>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:12:06.195Z]	<Alan_>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:12:10.182Z]	<SRPattison>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:12:20.077Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:12:34.576Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-02-03T16:12:35.054Z]	<bernhard>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:12:38.496Z]	<kimhd>	q-
[2020-02-03T16:14:06.994Z]	<juancaballero>	scribe+
[2020-02-03T16:14:46.714Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: juancaballero
[2020-02-03T16:15:17.162Z]	<juancaballero>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:15:42.386Z]	<kimhd>	kimhd: describing how to do minutes
[2020-02-03T16:15:51.275Z]	<juancaballero>	... and some other stuff
[2020-02-03T16:15:58.878Z]	<juancaballero>	... about the early days
[2020-02-03T16:16:55.981Z]	<kimhd>	Charter: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vjrvwmvHOYmJd_Dqwk_TfGjKLTiTe9fzX9J4QqCUcf0/edit#heading=h.iem8mwq6o4rn
[2020-02-03T16:17:00.548Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:17:01.414Z]	<juancaballero>	... today we'll run through the charter as our main agenda item
[2020-02-03T16:17:03.629Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:18:03.676Z]	<KerriL>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:18:50.989Z]	<juancaballero>	... primarily adding and subtracting use cases and requirements
[2020-02-03T16:19:19.509Z]	<juancaballero>	... this work evolved out of the digital credentials consortium (14 north american universities)
[2020-02-03T16:19:55.843Z]	<juancaballero>	... all 14 had previously experimented on their own with their own pilots (some but not all blockchain anchored/hashed)
[2020-02-03T16:20:48.002Z]	<juancaballero>	... VC spec 1.0 is very new, despite over a decade of experimentation and incubation, primarily in the education space (openBadges, blockcerts, etc)
[2020-02-03T16:21:27.274Z]	<JamesChartrand>	present+ James Chartrand
[2020-02-03T16:21:30.051Z]	<juancaballero>	... hitting a wall on interop and cross-verification; for that reason, wanted this discussion to be more open and gather more requirements and feedback from outside
[2020-02-03T16:21:54.897Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	Could be either
[2020-02-03T16:22:10.324Z]	<juancaballero>	... in a way that fed into the standards track. IEEE is working on ??? cm4 ILR (i? learning record)
[2020-02-03T16:22:21.674Z]	<juancaballero>	... and w3c is of course pushing forward the VC spec itself
[2020-02-03T16:22:33.715Z]	<ottonomy>	ILR = Interoperable Learning Record, in most formulations I've seen.
[2020-02-03T16:22:53.390Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	I am leaning towards Integrated Learner Record (ILR) but the White House and US Chamber/TX are using Interoperable Learner Record
[2020-02-03T16:23:15.044Z]	<juancaballero>	... we can version schemas that come out of this work, and start iterating and experiment together before standards are finalized
[2020-02-03T16:23:34.081Z]	<kimhd>	voip: nnoise?
[2020-02-03T16:23:35.016Z]	<juancaballero>	PSA:
[2020-02-03T16:23:37.806Z]	<kimhd>	voip: noise?
[2020-02-03T16:23:43.267Z]	<juancaballero>	RECENT JOINERS MUTE THEMSELVES :D
[2020-02-03T16:24:12.696Z]	<kimhd>	voip: connections?
[2020-02-03T16:24:28.163Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	BTW - Kim referred to CM4LTS - that is the IEEE Conceptual Model for Learner Technology Systems (CM4LTS).  Kim, Nate, me, and others are working together on that.  Study Group meets this Fri
[2020-02-03T16:24:29.487Z]	<Uli_Ga>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:24:34.161Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-03T16:24:40.197Z]	<juancaballero>	thanks greg!
[2020-02-03T16:24:42.887Z]	<stuart>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:24:53.719Z]	<HansP>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:25:20.411Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2020-02-03T16:25:30.178Z]	<juancaballero>	kimhd: lots of these pre-W3C credentials we're talking about use XML, whereas the W3C ones are so far almost entirely in JSON-LD
[2020-02-03T16:26:07.555Z]	<juancaballero>	... since all the VC tooling so far has been very JSON-LD, most people have just been mapping or translating from XML to LD
[2020-02-03T16:26:11.231Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	Q+
[2020-02-03T16:26:56.029Z]	<HansP>	is there are good web way to join the voice call?
[2020-02-03T16:27:14.805Z]	<juancaballero>	... understandably, lots of people are hesitant to shift to these new systems with untested/new security issues in the SSI world
[2020-02-03T16:27:26.151Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	Hans     US phone: +1.540.274.1034 x6306     EU phone: +33.9.74.59.31.06 x6306
[2020-02-03T16:27:56.283Z]	<ottonomy>	@HansP You can use a SIP client (I signed up for OnSIP), though reports are the SIP gateway has been a bit finicky of late.
[2020-02-03T16:27:57.317Z]	<juancaballero>	... one middle ground is non-blockchain PKI via OIDC rather than DID-based SSI
[2020-02-03T16:28:24.131Z]	<juancaballero>	... existing university authentication methods are one way to anchor, access, and sign VCs
[2020-02-03T16:29:10.686Z]	<juancaballero>	... the great thing about the VC data model is that it's very flexible on ToU, security and privacy considerations, allowing many different kinds of use cases, but
[2020-02-03T16:29:56.228Z]	<juancaballero>	... we have yet to really explore and stabilize the parameters of those use cases around sharing and semi-public contexts
[2020-02-03T16:30:22.318Z]	<juancaballero>	... but moving on to the agenda item here, we want to zoom in and clarify scope and focal use cases, particularly in these terms
[2020-02-03T16:32:10.864Z]	<HansP>	thx @ottonomy
[2020-02-03T16:32:40.477Z]	<juancaballero>	ack greg_Nadeau
[2020-02-03T16:32:41.576Z]	<KerriL>	Q+
[2020-02-03T16:33:10.517Z]	<juancaballero>	greg_Nadeau: introduces himself (public consulting group, boston)
[2020-02-03T16:33:30.684Z]	<juancaballero>	... active in IMS global heading up use cases (ontology format)
[2020-02-03T16:33:49.421Z]	<juancaballero>	... also worked in the IEEE on IRL recommended practices
[2020-02-03T16:34:00.065Z]	<juancaballero>	... also the US Chamber of Commerce initiative
[2020-02-03T16:34:21.257Z]	<juancaballero>	... I queued myself when you mentioned making references sharable-- that's 1 of 3 main foci of the IEEE group
[2020-02-03T16:34:59.945Z]	<juancaballero>	... to be more precise, 1 SSI access control and trust network; 2 open ontology references; 3 verifiable assertions
[2020-02-03T16:35:28.422Z]	<juancaballero>	... for these verifiable assertions to be valuable, they need to be cross-walkable and semi-public, i.e. as linked data
[2020-02-03T16:36:00.437Z]	<juancaballero>	... the mental model of the wallet is useful because the subject of those credentials need to be able to share
[2020-02-03T16:36:07.438Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-03T16:36:14.809Z]	<kimhd>	ack Greg_Nadeau
[2020-02-03T16:36:23.537Z]	<juancaballero>	... CASE network and other groups have been talking about open ontology metadirectories
[2020-02-03T16:36:31.970Z]	<juancaballero>	(sorry everyone my connection is glitching out often!)
[2020-02-03T16:37:24.335Z]	<juancaballero>	kimhd: thanks greg for reminding us of what's being discussed there so that we can be aware of it
[2020-02-03T16:37:49.562Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	To be involved in monthly IEEE CM4LTS calls Fridays 1P ET send e-mail to gnadeau@pcgus.com
[2020-02-03T16:38:07.808Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	To view current draft https://docs.google.com/document/d/10coLe1iBJ-zmzjl17GkN771JtdTKNIEZyPyCf4H4Y1o/edit#
[2020-02-03T16:38:41.295Z]	<kimhd>	ack KerriL
[2020-02-03T16:38:52.547Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to introduce and apologize for needing to leave early
[2020-02-03T16:39:13.364Z]	<juancaballero>	KerriL: self-intro: openBadges for the last decade, been working on my dissertation, and working with Dept ED on blockchain verification for educational credentials
[2020-02-03T16:39:26.344Z]	<kimhd>	thanks Nate, will call on you next. thanks for joining!
[2020-02-03T16:39:27.785Z]	<juancaballero>	... just to throw out a question for later/food for thought: LIBRARY use cases?
[2020-02-03T16:39:37.012Z]	<juancaballero>	... how libraries intersect with professional development
[2020-02-03T16:40:08.598Z]	<juancaballero>	... does anyone have experience with library of congress standards or other library work?
[2020-02-03T16:40:44.162Z]	<juancaballero>	kimhd: reminder that march-ish, we'll be releasing Kerri's report, on blockchain (and other decentralized) innovations
[2020-02-03T16:40:50.578Z]	<juancaballero>	... that report is going to save all of us a lot of time
[2020-02-03T16:40:58.029Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-02-03T16:41:25.949Z]	<juancaballero>	ottonomy: self-introduction: Badger platform at OpenSky : we are interested in coming together and finding the next path forward that will unite all our efforts over the last 5 years
[2020-02-03T16:41:39.498Z]	<juancaballero>	... in envelopes, digital signatures, and DID Auth  / recipient verification
[2020-02-03T16:41:42.823Z]	<kimhd>	Simone -- can I call on you next?
[2020-02-03T16:41:44.239Z]	<KerriL>	Library standards: https://www.loc.gov/librarians/standards
[2020-02-03T16:41:53.099Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Q+
[2020-02-03T16:42:11.265Z]	<juancaballero>	... there are usecases in education that are ready to go, well-documented and clarified, waiting to connect all the dots
[2020-02-03T16:42:26.186Z]	<juancaballero>	... and leave the "trials while we wait for parts to come together" stage in the evolution of this tech
[2020-02-03T16:42:35.238Z]	<ottonomy>	Thanks, all! I'm going to have to drop off IRC to drive, but I'll stay on audio for a bit longer until the connection drops. Glad to get started. What I'm most excited about is coalescing some implementers on a well-chosen set of standards and schemas so that we have a working example that is complete for use cases we define. Verifiable Credentials, DIDs for recipient identity, claim structure, digital signature means, identifier authentication (DID Auth?).
[2020-02-03T16:42:45.681Z]	<kimhd>	ack Simone_Ravaioli
[2020-02-03T16:42:59.675Z]	<juancaballero>	Simone_Ravaioli: Self intro: based in Italy, work for
[2020-02-03T16:43:38.923Z]	<juancaballero>	... Digitary (Dublin, Ire), although lately we're working with lots of APAC universities
[2020-02-03T16:44:20.956Z]	<juancaballero>	... we've been trying to keep track of all the moving parts, including the European Commision work (most recently, EuroCat )
[2020-02-03T16:44:37.402Z]	<juancaballero>	... also we've been working with North American efforts
[2020-02-03T16:44:56.489Z]	<juancaballero>	... we want to keep the perspective global
[2020-02-03T16:45:12.016Z]	<KerriL>	+1 to global perspective
[2020-02-03T16:45:30.708Z]	<kimhd>	Juan -- can I call on you next? I can scribe for you. I'd like to hear about your interests
[2020-02-03T16:45:31.807Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	Simone - can you send links to best Europass references and your e-mail?
[2020-02-03T16:45:40.135Z]	<juancaballero>	kimhd: we might ask you to present some week soon, particularly if you're at liberty to comment on these global projects
[2020-02-03T16:46:03.369Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	https://ec.europa.eu/futurium/en/europass/new-europass
[2020-02-03T16:46:20.575Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	simone.ravaioli@digitary.net
[2020-02-03T16:46:35.275Z]	<kimhd>	juancaballero: SSI company in Germany. Working on uni and gov projects
[2020-02-03T16:47:01.395Z]	<kimhd>	...was college professor, worked with registrar depts
[2020-02-03T16:47:39.589Z]	<Alan_>	q+
[2020-02-03T16:47:46.650Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	In US, AACRAO recently endorsed IMS CLR
[2020-02-03T16:48:13.981Z]	<kimhd>	ack Alan_
[2020-02-03T16:48:17.286Z]	<juancaballero>	alan_: self intro: CredentialMaster
[2020-02-03T16:48:36.915Z]	<juancaballero>	... salesforce technical architect for many years, building a VC management system on top of SF platform
[2020-02-03T16:48:51.820Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-03T16:48:52.455Z]	<juancaballero>	... in its first stage, it'll be dealing with educational credentials
[2020-02-03T16:50:09.957Z]	<bernhard>	q+
[2020-02-03T16:50:18.416Z]	<HansP>	q+
[2020-02-03T16:50:31.121Z]	<juancaballero>	kimhd: one question i did want to touch on (after Bernhard) is gathering claims
[2020-02-03T16:50:40.350Z]	<kimhd>	ack bernhard
[2020-02-03T16:50:42.920Z]	<juancaballero>	bernhard:
[2020-02-03T16:51:22.038Z]	<juancaballero>	... Self-intro: chief scientist at Dock (blockchain-based company), but i
[2020-02-03T16:51:41.236Z]	<juancaballero>	... am more interested in privacy and selective disclosure, am joining this call as a "concerned citizen"
[2020-02-03T16:52:20.531Z]	<juancaballero>	... i am interested in DIDs to create indirection/redirection to aid privacy and lifetime access considerations
[2020-02-03T16:52:36.787Z]	<juancaballero>	... i hope we can all get to know each other over the next few weeks and happy to be here!
[2020-02-03T16:53:00.157Z]	<juancaballero>	kimhd: yes! lifecycle considerations and privacy concerns are of central concern to most or all of us
[2020-02-03T16:53:24.708Z]	<juancaballero>	... with VCs, the idea is that decentralization and user-centric control will be protected, although there is a lot of work left to do there
[2020-02-03T16:53:41.640Z]	<kimhd>	ack HansP
[2020-02-03T16:53:54.099Z]	<juancaballero>	HansP: Self intro: Senior VP/CIO of TUeM
[2020-02-03T16:53:59.845Z]	<Uli_Ga>	q+
[2020-02-03T16:54:24.111Z]	<juancaballero>	... in Munich, we are on the one hand issuer and, on the other, verifier of a lot of educational credentials
[2020-02-03T16:54:38.565Z]	<juancaballero>	... so we want to be ahead of the curve as all these systems go live
[2020-02-03T16:54:41.304Z]	<kimhd>	ack Uli_Ga
[2020-02-03T16:54:48.305Z]	<juancaballero>	Uli_Ga: self-intro: also from Muenchen
[2020-02-03T16:55:09.590Z]	<SRPattison>	q+ to introduce
[2020-02-03T16:55:16.095Z]	<juancaballero>	... I'm a PhD student here, particularly interested in how realworld identities map to onchain/immutable/highly-public identities
[2020-02-03T16:55:22.870Z]	<kimhd>	ack SRPattison
[2020-02-03T16:55:24.289Z]	<juancaballero>	SRPattison: Steven Pattison,
[2020-02-03T16:55:36.377Z]	<stuart>	q+
[2020-02-03T16:55:47.651Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	q+
[2020-02-03T16:55:51.347Z]	<kimhd>	ack stuart
[2020-02-03T16:55:51.978Z]	<juancaballero>	... here to connect dots and see what's happening
[2020-02-03T16:56:06.155Z]	<juancaballero>	Stuart: (sorry my audio dropped)
[2020-02-03T16:56:27.825Z]	<kimhd>	Stuart: interested in education use cases
[2020-02-03T16:56:32.528Z]	<juancaballero>	Matt_Lisle: Georgia Tech, we have been piloting and doing UX research on digital credential through the DCC
[2020-02-03T16:56:54.137Z]	<juancaballero>	... our focus lately has been on lifetime learning credentials (rather than traditional tertiary degrees)
[2020-02-03T16:57:23.695Z]	<juancaballero>	kimhd: yes, usability and user research will be useful here! We'll be linking to their study on BlockCerts interviewing users soon
[2020-02-03T16:57:46.786Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-03T16:57:47.847Z]	<juancaballero>	... would be good to hear from others working with realworld user
[2020-02-03T16:57:50.496Z]	<juancaballero>	q+
[2020-02-03T16:57:56.274Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	Report out from our previous UX research at http://c21u.gatech.edu/blog/understanding-student-experience-blockcerts-blockchain-powered-academic-credentials-through
[2020-02-03T16:57:57.828Z]	<kimhd>	ack Matt_Lisle
[2020-02-03T16:57:58.950Z]	<KerriL>	+1 user experience research
[2020-02-03T16:58:05.161Z]	<kimhd>	ack juancaballero
[2020-02-03T16:58:38.603Z]	<kimhd>	juancaballero: Fraunhofer in Germany doing a usability study. would be good to sync
[2020-02-03T16:58:52.698Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-03T17:01:11.171Z]	<juancaballero>	Greg_Nadeau: suggestion: some of the things coming out of the conceptual model guide might be useful
[2020-02-03T17:01:34.937Z]	<juancaballero>	... particularly interesting where they don't map well to W3C VCs (terminologically, in particular)
[2020-02-03T17:02:18.075Z]	<juancaballero>	kimhd: Greg may have a reference for CEDS, but I'm not sure if that's not publicly available yet
[2020-02-03T17:02:30.115Z]	<juancaballero>	... project (lots of education data standards history and interop there)
[2020-02-03T17:02:48.721Z]	<juancaballero>	... or in IMS Global
[2020-02-03T17:03:55.528Z]	<juancaballero>	Greg_Nadeau: the good news is that Jim Goddell is writing the IEEE, which will thus be well-synchronized with the CEDS terminology
[2020-02-03T17:04:51.218Z]	<bernhard>	credential management/representation, aka wallet, may be another shared interest
[2020-02-03T17:05:01.655Z]	<juancaballero>	... CEDS is very US-centric, but this point of translation/integration is a good point for interjecting global awareness and counterexamples...
[2020-02-03T17:05:34.936Z]	<KerriL>	Thanks!!
