Thanks to Manu Sporny and Charles E. Lehner for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-01-06 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2021-01-06

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Dec/0208.html
Organizer:
  Heather Vescent and Wayne Chang and Kim Hamilton Duffy
Scribe:
  Manu Sporny and Charles E. Lehner
Present:
  Heather Vescent, Mike Prorock, Charles E. Lehner, Amy Guy, Brian 
  Munz, Wayne Chang, Kerri Lemoie, Adrian Gropper, Taylor Kendall, 
  Dmitri Zagidulin, Manu Sporny, Ryan Grant, Phil Archer, Juan 
  Caballero, Joe Andrieu, Erica Connell, Ted Thibodeau, Kaliya 
  Young
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-01-06/audio.ogg

<mprorock> happy new year @manu
<manu_sporny> happy new year @mprorock ... all! :)
Heather Vescent:  Hi all, welcome to a new year call! [scribe 
  assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  We're going to focus on the upcoming election 
  on the call today -- some action items. [scribe assist by Manu 
  Sporny]
<manu> heathervescent goes over the IPR agreement announcements.
Heather Vescent:  Note that some people hadn't joined CCG yet, 
  signed IPR agreement, please become official member of CCG to 
  vote in election. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  Minutes are posted on our website [scribe 
  assist by Manu Sporny]
Manu Sporny is scribing.
Heather Vescent:  I updated all of the old meeting notes and 
  audio - everything should be up to date now.
Heather Vescent:  We use chat -- Jitsi chat or IRC is fine.
Heather Vescent:  In IRC -- type q+ to add yourself to the queue, 
  you can add a note, example: "q+ to talk about cats"
Heather Vescent:  We will acknowledge you to speak, please be 
  brief so others can speak, you can always q+ again. This meeting 
  is held by voice, not IRC, offtopic conversation is subject to 
  deletion from the record.
Heather Vescent:  Any volunteers for scribe?
Heather Vescent: Scribe list: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit#heading=h.ngyk8y939osi
<rhiaro> I encourage anyone who hasn't done it before to try 
  scribing, you don't have to be perfect and any typos will be 
  corrected by others!
Charles E. Lehner is scribing.
Heather Vescent:  Time to do intros and reintros
  ... anyone on call to do intro/reintro. can q or pipe up
Charles E. Lehner:  Hi Charles Lehner, working at Spruce now. 
  [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Heather Vescent:  Anyone else?
Heather Vescent:  Let's move on then. announcements and reminders
Heather Vescent: Announcements: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
Heather Vescent:  Only one comin up recently is thoughtful 
  biometrics workshop that kaliya has mentioned.
Is kaliya on call, or anyone want to mention to speak to that? 
  juan
<jimstclair> Sorry, where is the link for the IPR? Not sure I 
  signed
Juan Caballero:  Knows url, that's it
Juan Caballero: https://thoughtfulbiometrics.org/
Heather Vescent:  Workshop coming up. interesting recently, my 
  interest in diversity and inclusion
Juan Caballero: https://thoughtfulbiometrics.org/
  ... w3c blended thie rd&i group with positive work environ work 
  group. announced office hours
  ... connect with people from that list
Heather Vescent: Inclusion and Diversity open office hours: 
  https://www.w3.org/community/idcg/2021/01/05/announcing-inclusion-and-diversity-open-office-hours/
  ... they are interesting and wonderful people
Manu Sporny:  That was interesting, didnt know it happened. what 
  to expect during office hours?
Heather Vescent:  Not sure, to be honest. is your question on 
  what led to the open office hours, or the blending of the 2 
  groups?
Manu Sporny:  General curiosity. who should show up?
  ... people running WGs/CGs? or CG members dealing with 
  diversity challenges?
  ... who is the intended audience?
Heather Vescent:  Good question, don't know as not very involved 
  with that
Heather Vescent:  May be blunt at times, will try to be more 
  delicate. when became co-chair, wanted to have more blend or 
  relationship between CCG and D&I group
Juan Caballero: https://w3c.github.io/idcg/office-hours.html
  ... spent time doing resarch early on to not lean on 
  POCs/minorities
  ... concensus structure of the W3C is not necessarily the best 
  structure for oaddressing inherent biases in the organization.
  ... i found that group to be interesting and useful. but 
  ultimately decided not a great resource for me & CCG to increase 
  D&I in this comm. but continue watching.
<cel>	... why blended: two co-chairs of d&i group getting ready 
  to step down. leadership overhead -> didn't seem like leadership 
  would step up
  ... rather than have the CG go away, it was blended into the 
  positive work environment group
  ... part of this is a bit of an experiment to see how it works, 
  how the W3C can have a moore positive work environment. part of 
  the inclusion. a prereq for recruiting a diverse community
  ... otherwise have a cycrle - brign in diverse people 
  viewpoints, they get chewed up and spit out
  ... seeming like they have a problem. a well-documented cycle
.. Makes sense to put them together. W3c is still trying to 
  figure out where it's power is and how to use it
  ... chairs had discussion
  ... tried to find practical actions that we could apply in the 
  CCG that would support
.. Does that answer
Manu Sporny:  Yes
Heather Vescent:  Talk to folks on office hours. or with me 
  offline - i can tell you the different folks i've spoken to and 
  direction for that. but it's a long haul as we are up against 
  biases we may not be aware of
Heather Vescent:  Rhiaro  has been to meetings
Amy Guy:  Office hours intended for people in underrepresented 
  communitires who want to get incolved in CCG
Heather Vescent: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
Heather Vescent:  We are going to go through community issues. 
  have a full slate. normally pick 2-3 but have a grouping now
Heather Vescent:  My brain works in buckets. put different topic 
  ideas in different buckets for what they make sense in.
First few issues 174 173, 172, 164, more later - all adjustments 
  proposed to CCG work item process
  ... these are proposed CCG-specific requirements for new work 
  items.
Heather Vescent:  173, 174, 172: These were hidden on another 
  thread in order to clean up and streamline and not have scope 
  creep on these issues
  ... did clean up to close some and have specific work items for 
  other things
  ... starting at top. #174
Heather Vescent: #174: 
  Https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/174
  ... 172,173,174: initiated from me based on a previous comment. 
  some best preactices seen in other communities and used myself to 
  increase diversity, increase leadership, do peer mentoring
  ... 174: the idea is peer leadership. tech perspective: has 
  peer programming - experienced and less-experienced developer 
  team up
  ... used in leadership situations. not necessarily 
  mentor-mentee, really meant that the younger (not necessarily age 
  - less experienced with leadership and wants more) - do 
  succession training, leadership training
  ... done in professional and non-professional environments with 
  success
  ... brought up as best practice
  ... for work items
<manu_sporny> only way the community can scale beyond where it is 
  now.
  ... next step: create PR to add to work item process. but 
  before, like a consensus-type attitute. want to bring up and see 
  if anyone wanted to comment or had issues to discuss
  ... add to q if you have comments
  ... don't see any. ifi have comments later, please add to GH. 
  otherwise will add as PR
Heather Vescent: 173: 
  Https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/173
  ... #173. have discussed before. addition of
  ... Heilmeier Questions
<rgrant> i'd like to offer quiet support for the idea of 
  mentoring.
  ... came across during first gov contract 7 years ago. good 
  process to go through, sit and understand what doing, explain to 
  other people
  ... have been using for some more recent work items towards end 
  of year. based on feedback, initial set of questions about 13 - 
  not a lot of overhead - to make work item proposers think more 
  deeply about it
Adrian Gropper:  Is discussion and acceptance of work items going 
  to be a rolling process
Heather Vescent:  Can be proposed by anyone in CCG. needs to have 
  2 people from CCG be co-owners. if no issue by anyone in CCG, can 
  move forward in CCG as work item
  ... chairs set up operations in work item repo. can get 
  involved, but it can be hands-off
Adrian Gropper:  Is there an existing queue of work items?
Heather Vescent:  Are youa sking for a list of current work 
  items?
Adrian Gropper:  Yes
Adrian Gropper:  Before i go through the trouble of adding to an 
  already interesting queue, i would like to know
Heather Vescent: Work items List: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/community/work_items.html
Heather Vescent:  Here is the list. we also have in github itself
Heather Vescent: Work Items on Github: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/blob/master/work_items.md
  ... we have a list of the work items here:
  ... one thing on my TODO since have been chair: this list of 
  work items is not fully updated
  ... it includes a lot of our active ones but many inactive 
  ones.
  ... i love to clean up messes. technical documentation messes
  ... want to review, clean up. some have not any work done in 
  several years.
  ... we wanted to, in very friendly manner, check in with the 
  work item owners
  ... may archive them.
Manu Sporny:  Overall, questions are good because they help 
  someone proposing a new work item think more deeply about it. i 
  have some concern about timelines
  ... understand if no progress, should close down. some specs 
  where we detectd that have been shutdown.
  ... which is good in some cases. concerned about things like 
  the HTTP signature spec. took 7 years, 6 years before started 
  being used seriously. now it's in the HTTP WG. work started here, 
  took a long time to mature.
Joe Andrieu: +1 To incubating without deadline pressure.
  ... i don't know what the thought process is when it comes to 
  work items like that that might take some time. Linked Data 
  signatures another example. thoughts? eval process?
Ryan Grant: +1 For incubation
Wayne Chang:  What is really the keepalive - ping-pong to keep a 
  work item alive?
  ... [lost audio]
  ... if work item owner is active and responsive, that's a 
  pretty good baseline
  ... unless someone feels a string reason for the work item to 
  not exist
Heather Vescent:  The idea is for us to do an audit of the work 
  items
Phil Archer: +1 On Manu's concern.  Things that "are important" 
  need to have a longer 'time to live'.  Progress isn't always 
  linear.
  ... it's about checking in with the work items that have not 
  had any work items. thought process: check in, see if there is 
  still interest in working on them.
  ... if there is, will give them time to spin back up. if not, 
  that's when we would archive it.
  ... chairs will not archive without touching base with the 
  owners
  ... why we have not done it yet. understanding the process to 
  check in. with each work item. understanding the history
  ... making sure not mistakenly sweeping under the rug archiving
Heather Vescent:  Our role is to support you guys doing really 
  cool work items. what we want to see happening in 2021.
  ... want to support a diversity of interesting work items. not 
  just this group but in relation to other W3C groups, DIF, and 
  other communities.
  ... closing out #173. anyone else have questions? also welcome 
  to comment on the GH item.
Wayne Chang:  Comment: orie had similar comment: can figure out 
  how to compress into 3-5 questions to cover 80% of scope. may be 
  less intimidating
  ... for work item creators. my suggestion
<manu_sporny> Like, "my answers may be used as a reason to not 
  start the work"
Heather Vescent:  I did boil it down from 13 to 8. would like to 
  more, if have suggestions on how without losing too much of them, 
  feel free to take a crack at it
<manu_sporny> but I don't think that's the intent of the 
  questions
Heather Vescent:  Moving onto the next item. #172
Heather Vescent: #172: 
  Https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/172
Ryan Grant: I propose we remove the "risks" or reword it to 
  address downsides for Internet users.  The risks to W3C 
  participants are always the same: spent work hours.
  ... the reason this came up: in the process of the 
  infrastructure task force / as the discussion of it was coming 
  up, chairs were approached for desire to have another task force, 
  realized did not have documentation of how to create a task force
  ... another task force issue: #164
Heather Vescent: #164: 
  Https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/164
Heather Vescent:  These both address task force. 164: 
  documentation regarding task force. never had documentation for 
  it before, trying to put in place.
  ... part of requirement is #172 requiring to have a charter.
Heather Vescent: Task Force Guidelines: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QBSskibwdgpE5UCXLA9iYm7jJNEZNhKTZyK7srFuMUc/edit
  ... chairs have put together draft guidelines ^
  ... have had a lot of different folks make comments. would like 
  us to have discussion about this. if have concerns or questions 
  ...
  ... not perfect, may iterate
  ... may be rolled into work item process or kept separate
Wayne Chang:  Commentary on how task force should evolve forward
  ... opportunity for anyone in community
  ... whether OCAPs as on mailing list, or Verificable Requests, 
  opportunity to have meetings
  ... with end-goal in mind
  ... we as chairs and infrastructure maintainers would like to 
  allow anyone to spawn their own notes, meetings, sessions
  .... figure how to provide infra for folks wanting to run task 
  forces and focus on topic at hand
  ... so task forces can spawn in and out of existence, cover 
  ground quickly
Heather Vescent:  Task forces being able to accept financial 
  resources to pay for things. discussion happening on issue
  ... in past have not had accepting of financial resources for a 
  task force. but are exploring for infra task force. others have 
  made request and we were not ready in the past
  ... trying to set up infrastructure and/or best practices to 
  support that in the future
Heather Vescent:  Comments so far look fine to me
  ... unless anyone has issue, i have no issue with the comments 
  made in the document.
  ... i move to propose that we add this to the CCG work item 
  process, or however the chairs decide it needs to be dovetailed 
  with that.
  ... then cllose 172, 164
  ... move onto next one, code of conduct in W3C repos.
Heather Vescent: #169: 
  Https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/169
  ... asking Brian_Munz
Brian Munz:  Pretty simple. navigating in repos. noticed no code 
  of conduct
  ... w3c has one in their larger community repo
Brian Munz:  My question: would be a good idea to have a code of 
  conduct in repos
Brian Munz:  Can use one that already exists
Brian Munz: https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/
Heather Vescent:  Seems like fine request to me. reviewing the 
  license that we just updated
  ... not sure if the CoC is mentioned. wondering if we can add 
  it in the license. just a thought.
Manu Sporny:  +1 To idea. and to reusing the w3c code of ethics 
  and professional conduct
  ... enormous amount of work went into it over years. really 
  good, we use it for our company. we think it hits the right 
  balance.
  ... the WGs already include that.
Mike Prorock: +1 Refernce and adhere to top level
  ... it might be useful to look at... i think DID WG does this 
  ... may reference it the same way if group likes
Heather Vescent:  Making note on the issue.
  ... add to q if have comments.
Ryan Grant: +1
Heather Vescent:  Brian_Munz does that work for you
Brian Munz:  Yes. question:
  ... if we've arrived at using the existing one, how do we 
  standardize the representation of it within the repos?
Heather Vescent:  How would you expect it to be done?
  ... is it in the hierarchy of the overall CCG, or in the 
  individual work item repo?
Brian Munz:  My question. looking at what large orgs do: it seems 
  to be in their template. but good to have in the individual ones.
Taylor Kendall: We have referenced this as well and it's very 
  well done. +1
Mike Prorock:  Think standardizing a reference from readme to 
  CoC, i think manu hit the nail on the head. broad CCG reference 
  out. also good for individual projects: link to from the readme, 
  so it is clear and standardized. could potentially solve problems 
  later, remove ability for people to say "i didn't know"
Manu Sporny:  Building off what mike said, i believe we have a 
  new project github template that people can click on. you can 
  include it in that.
  ... +1 on reducing work for everyone to remember
Heather Vescent:  Updating the comment with: we can use the 
  existing for best practice, reference and link, add to new work 
  item template
  ... will look into how the working groups do this.
  ... if anyone comes across it, can pop it in the issue
  ... addressed question?
Brian Munz:  Yes
Heather Vescent:  Thanks
  ... next: infrastructure task force
Heather Vescent: #168: Infrastructure Task Force: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/168
Wayne Chang:  Can give context. lot of stuff going on under the 
  hood to keep gears turning for CCG. including jitsi, recordings, 
  notes, other processes
  ... over time, a lot of great community members have been 
  stepping up and helping extensively. kudos to everyone involved
  ... but happening informally. more work items have reliance on 
  CCG, find appropriate to add transparency.
  ... propose to stipulate what job is to be done, have open ways 
  to communicate and be informed
  ... for infrastructure. e.g. npm repository
  ... create accountability
  ... task force should have goal in mind, as Ted mentioned. may 
  make part of the CCG as a committee.
  ... kim requested we write a charter . did, got contributions. 
  revisions.
Wayne Chang: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hlP3Vr2OSUxRAcq6i7abn2Z3tWg1Jc7D69yNiL2836Y/edit#
  ... scope is defined in the issue and in the charter.
  ... linked. description of the scope, deliverables. how to 
  participate - any ccg member.
  ... not everyone will have secret API keys. will be accountable 
  to CCG.
  ... figuring out the community governance element. how to make 
  sure it will be serving the CCG as much as possible, have full 
  alignment, but not have to have yes/no on every question
  ... propose: can have first say, but must disclose to mailing 
  list
  ... chairs to exercise judgment on what must be disclosed. 
  anyone may designate an item as subject to approval
  ... in event of strong objections. if 2 or more community 
  members object, escalate to voting. as in chair elections
  ... add ultimate accountability to community.
  ... weeks of discussion, what is acceptable, appropriate. think 
  we have arrived at stable space.
  ... want to receive additional feedback here or on ML.
  ... if no objects, can move to ratify this week.
  ... add to q for comments/feedback
Heather Vescent:  Thanks for your work on this work item
Wayne Chang:  Kudos to amy for bringing up Open Collective. a way 
  to transparently manage funds - for intrastructure. so everyone 
  can see what the money is spent on.
  ... $2000 committed for this use case.
  ... if anyone else has contributions in mind, or ways to 
  propose how to handle finances, happy to receive email
Heather Vescent: #136: 
  Https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/136
Heather Vescent:  Apologies about time. discuss #136
Heather Vescent: Election Charter: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YJ2kPg_zzR8oINq9MDf6KcAma21OJtmwAENjzzHe-iA/edit#heading=h.tivi9i7j8qdr
  ... learnings from last election that we are addressing in the 
  charter.
  ... wayne to run. worked with victoria
Wayne Chang:  How do we have a nice aggreeable election process 
  that is legitimate and everyone can get onboard with. another 
  google doc
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YJ2kPg_zzR8oINq9MDf6KcAma21OJtmwAENjzzHe-iA/edit
  ... introduce approval voting: select all the options you 
  approve of. we pick the most-approved options.
  ... how do we have a better stipulation on what constitutes 
  voting membership.
  ... what should be requirements for ccg members to vote in 
  chair elections?
  ... in doc proposed 6 months instead of 3
  ... if folks have ideas, invite commentary: add to q or on the 
  thread.
  ... will continue to address items in charter this week. give 
  final call for reviewer feedback
<dmitriz> what's the functional/game theory difference between 
  approval voting, versus ranked voting?
  ... without strong objections, will attempt to make the 
  amendment.
Heather Vescent:  We the chairs would like any issues to these 
  brought up ASAP. need to have agreement before can move on 
  election.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Question: since wayne mentioned approval 
  voting: what's the functional difference between approval voting 
  and ranked voting - ranked choice runnoff?
Wayne Chang:  Need to get back to you. can ask on thread
Heather Vescent:  Seen comments on charter amendment. do we need 
  to leave this open for a week? if no other issues can accept 
  changes and move forward?
Manu Sporny:  +1 To that. think it's fine. have reviewed the 
  language, looks fine to me. just concerned about amount of work 
  on chairs to identify eligible voting members. understand why, 
  concerned about extra work for chairs. hopefully you have a 
  fairly automated way. feels like something there could be tooling 
  for
Wayne Chang:  Agree. opportunity for more tooling. structured on 
  github already. with infrastructure task force taking load off, 
  chairs could be freed up to build tooling for or automate more.
Ryan Grant: Here is electionscience.org on voting: All voting 
  methods can exhibit problems, but their frequency and severity is 
  particularly pronounced with RCV. RCV also makes it so you can 
  sometimes harm a candidate by ranking them better and help a 
  candidate by ranking them worse. Again, there’s the spoiler 
  issue. There’s also RCV’s squeezing out of moderates even when 
  they’re clearly the best winner.
Ryan Grant: 
  https://electionscience.org/library/approval-voting-versus-irv/
Heather Vescent:  A concern from the last election
Wayne Chang:  What does 6 month look like, what do meaningful 
  contributions look like
  ... how to deliver value
  ... how to measure contributions
Heather Vescent:  Sounds like we may barely get this approved. 
  may need an additional week to finalize text
Wayne Chang:  Will try to get done this week, put in front of 
  community. item has been outstanding for weeks now. hopefuly wrap 
  up for chair election
Heather Vescent:  Chair election schedule - waiting for this part 
  to wrap up before moving forward
Heather Vescent:  Chairs put together job description
Heather Vescent: Co-Chair job description: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/18uPGjBw15i9jLRQ5K4SCwrrGU6zBIB3PpIap17X39fo/edit
  ... if thinking of running, please reach out
  ... if want to get leadership experience or get involved, good 
  opportunity
  ... existing chairs, espeically kim have done a great job 
  automating things
  ... chairs will not be required to do as much operational 
  infrastructure stuff. to focus on other things
Ted Thibodeau: That ElectionScience article has a definite bias 
  toward approval voting. In the spirit of equal bias -- 
  https://thefulcrum.us/voting/why-rcv-beats-approval-voting -- and 
  of (on skim, anyway) less bias -- 
  https://www.commoncause.org/democracy-wire/instant-runoff-voting-irv-vs-approval-voting-av/
  ... opportunity if you want to start an initiative
  ... thank you
Wayne Chang:  Big things coming in 2021
<tayken> Thanks all! Happy 21
  ... macro comment: big initiative: reduce requreiment that 
  chairs have to play devops / support staff. focus on higher-level 
  tasks. not that chairs shouldn't
