[2024-03-12T17:34:02.335Z]	<nis>	present+
[2024-03-12T17:34:02.337Z]	<Guilherme>	present+
[2024-03-12T17:34:04.227Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2024-03-12T17:34:37.369Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-03-12T17:34:38.482Z]	<Guilherme>	present+
[2024-03-12T17:36:12.529Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2024-03-12T17:36:14.215Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-03-12T17:36:14.216Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-03-12T17:36:27.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_H_(mesur.io): Looks like you need to kick out kick the um.
[2024-03-12T17:37:13.320Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2024-03-12T17:37:37.868Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/932
[2024-03-12T17:38:13.886Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/937
[2024-03-12T17:38:55.104Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/938
[2024-03-12T17:40:05.642Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/939
[2024-03-12T17:42:19.741Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/940
[2024-03-12T17:46:54.272Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/941
[2024-03-12T17:50:05.779Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/942
[2024-03-12T17:50:13.587Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Nis: Vocab week.

Two at bottom, patrick not here, skipped

932, Russell, merging

937 turn links into markdown, workflow awaiting approval, running it, skipping ahead

938, issue 272 leiaddress, bunch of comments, does not seem ready to merge

939, add contributor. Bunch of other things as well, seems a bit messy? making note

940, editor list update, nis. has an update to issuer dependent terms from organic rename, but needed to be done. merging

941, russell, move sizeoramount to agproduct. has conflict because of recent merge. merge out of band.

942, clean up date and datetime usage, russell
[2024-03-12T17:52:26.946Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: thinking it through. If all you get is a date, why would that default to midnight?
[2024-03-12T17:53:01.609Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ted: in general case, do prefer to use date when that's what it is. acceptable to use datetime to have all zeros in timezones, does wind up midnight, question is midnight gmt/with offset/something
[2024-03-12T17:56:32.638Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	russell: ended up using endDate for all the places, that ok?
[2024-03-12T17:58:11.289Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: use something better?
[2024-03-12T17:59:17.435Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	russell: incremental improvement, improving specificity of terms out of scope

Also there's an issue orie raised
[2024-03-12T17:59:28.465Z]	<TallTed>	https://schema.org/Date
[2024-03-12T18:03:54.302Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/937
[2024-03-12T18:04:37.225Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/627
[2024-03-12T18:04:40.861Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: orie issue resolved, #date is fine, ok merging

keeping til next week, needs another approval

937, CI passed now, merging
[2024-03-12T18:05:15.324Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/628
[2024-03-12T18:07:53.119Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/629
[2024-03-12T18:16:41.961Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/630
[2024-03-12T18:17:32.314Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/624
[2024-03-12T18:20:12.291Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: interop, 627, merging

628, cbp requirement udpates. big, cleaning out stuff all over.

1 approval short, don't feel comfortable merging

629, change collection link to use statuslist2021 collection. I think we should merge now, as it's something that needs to be done. Even if as orie says the collection currently does not use statuslist2021. It's an incremental improvement.

waiting for more approvals, only 1 as of now.

630, remove negative tests for context object items. I don't have objections

that's it for PRs. end early, give time for upload
