Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-10-24-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-10-24-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-10-24

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Oct&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Benjamin Collins, Chris Abernethy, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau 
  (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Russell H (mesur.io), Orie Steele

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Benjamin Collins:  Of attributing bad words to us but that's.
Chris Abernethy:  It was in rare form last week I didn't see any 
  swears but some of the stuff is ridiculous.
Benjamin Collins:  I'm waiting for like recording it's on.
Benjamin Collins:  Is it going to crash on that again.
Chris Abernethy:  I hope not.
Benjamin Collins:  We have the transcriber Bobby of the CG but.
Benjamin Collins:  It stopped recording okay let's set itself 
  recording but there's no like red button next to it.
Benjamin Collins:  But I hit like stir okay let me hit start 
  again.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay there we go.
Benjamin Collins:  Think I think we're ready to start.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay so I guess no new people here so we don't 
  need to go through the introduction notes sung in the ccg remit 
  let's start with Trace vocab week.
Benjamin Collins:  And go to pull request.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/893
Benjamin Collins:  And there is only one request open from me 
  this is a work in progress this is a specific narrowly defined 
  invoice for cfd f.c. FDI invoice for Mexico this is their digital 
  invoicing standard and this is kind of creating a compatibility 
  layer between medical credentials and their digital invoices.
Benjamin Collins:  Kind of redundant but just we have feedback 
  from customers and trying to do that so this will probably be 
  ready for next week's meeting and if we go other any pull request 
  over on Trace picture up.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Benjamin Collins:  So one is a draft.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/603
Benjamin Collins:  Yes this is not here this week we'll give him 
  one more week to do that and then the second one is pull 603 from 
  the mood which has no reviews on it.
Benjamin Collins:  So this is.
Benjamin Collins:  See Chris did you want to jump in on that.
Chris Abernethy:  I have not had a chance to review this yet so 
  just taking a quick look.
Chris Abernethy:  I would say one issue here is that it looks 
  like the report index has been committed which I don't.
Chris Abernethy:  Think was intended.
Chris Abernethy:  Not 100% sure on that yeah it looks like a new 
  file that's generated that should not be in a PR.
Benjamin Collins:  Hi but otherwise.
Chris Abernethy:  Is also it looks like a client secret was 
  committed in the Run dot sh.
Benjamin Collins:  Oh hey Ya Wanna be quite secure that's.
Benjamin Collins:  Not a good thing to happen.
Benjamin Collins:  So I guess we can give feedback but it looks 
  totally out of the two things are agility readme and.
Benjamin Collins:  IPhone 3 point 9 / 11 and reports that index 
  though so what's actually being changed oh it should be using so 
  it's just removing the one line from agility that beat me right.
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah that seems to be the only substantive 
  change there and then he has a question as to whether or not we 
  should just remove this whole tutorial as an alternate.
Benjamin Collins:  Why I think.
Benjamin Collins:  Might be a separate issue of what Agility Test 
  we need for our Falcon Angels 2.0 but.
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah it looks like this is.
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah the issue 562 is for removing Json web 
  signature 2020 is that I am work items been withdrawn so it makes 
  sense to make that modification for sure and the read me the 
  question is to whether or not we should remove this entirely this 
  tutorial I agree I think we should perhaps propose that to a 
  larger group.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay is that on the issue.
Benjamin Collins:  Tell the SEC moved yes it's me so this is an 
  issue 562.
Benjamin Collins:  Banana Joe dictatorial to three weeks ago okay 
  I think we can all I think this this poor request address is 
  issue 562 and if we want to create a different issue we can 
  create one for removing the entire tutorial right.
Chris Abernethy:  I think that's yeah that makes sense although 
  wounded comments on 562 that the first PR should also remove Ed 
  to 5519 signature 2018.
Chris Abernethy:  What she has not done so.
Chris Abernethy:  That's potentially why he may be asked if we 
  should just remove this tutorial entirely.
Chris Abernethy:  But either way I would definitely have some 
  change request here the index shouldn't be there and you 
  certainly shouldn't be committing client Secrets he'll probably 
  want to rotate that.
Benjamin Collins:  All right so that's it for pull requests of 
  this week two we want to go hold ahead any agenda items we will 
  bring.
Benjamin Collins:  We can go directly into issues and sort by.
Benjamin Collins:  Least recently updated.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Chris Abernethy:  Sorry just making a note on this issue here.
Benjamin Collins:  So let's go ahead with the shoe.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/804
Benjamin Collins:  This is replace traceability hashtag products 
  with schema.org products.
Benjamin Collins:  I think what kind of depends are we asserting 
  that this is the exact same thing is his product because if our 
  if our product diverges from their product and were you know 
  defining new things under their attributes.
Benjamin Collins:  Having our own which can have attributes that 
  say Hey this is the same thing as schema.org.
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah it's a we have does anyone know whether or 
  not our product is different than schema doors product.
Benjamin Collins:  Without looking out probably to their 
  different.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): If these are cases where the properties 
  being defined are references to mesh Rio products I think it is 
  kind of the.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): The no I'm too when we are referencing one 
  of our own schemas use traceability hashtag.
Chris Abernethy:  I think it might be good to get some more 
  information on where this is being used maybe a link into the 
  code and also see whether or not we are defining this item.
Chris Abernethy:  Just referencing it.
Benjamin Collins:  The comment on the issue.
Benjamin Collins:  And that seems like a more nuanced json-ld 
  example.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/532
Benjamin Collins:  Um I would imagine that a lot of these four 
  requests are going to be nuanced json-ld examples.
Benjamin Collins:  Let's see it completed units weight versus net 
  weight xsd double versus xsd decimal.
Benjamin Collins:  This one is currently assigned to my mood.
Benjamin Collins:  I 531 is currently a side so all the places 
  he's weight can be found were measured it for quantitative value 
  should be correct structure prospective.
Benjamin Collins:  Is weak yeah currently a few strings have 
  childish those should all be changed.
Benjamin Collins:  So it looks like this is just waiting for PR I 
  guess if my mood has a suggested.
Chris Abernethy:  It sounds like he has a path forward here and 
  perhaps.
Benjamin Collins:  Mike this is ready for PR and.
Benjamin Collins:  Buddhism on the call to get the Ping of shame 
  but.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/811
Benjamin Collins:  I might be of Shame is coming up in a few 
  issues so don't want to talk all right so next is issue 811 looks 
  like this is for me semantic issue for commercial invoice from 
  808 we deleted performance voice that have lien tag for 
  commercial invoice credential Boolean work since cumulonimbus Bap 
  semantics.
Benjamin Collins:  People reply to the Boolean flag.
Benjamin Collins:  I mean I think the main thing here is.
Benjamin Collins:  You know who's who's consuming The json-ld 
  View on these credentials.
Chris Abernethy:  So I when you say this is semantic issue how 
  can you can you elaborate on that is it because commercial 
  invoice credential isn't really isn't necessarily a question that 
  can be answered by a Boolean or.
Benjamin Collins:  I think it's if you were to imagine of 
  converting this into a graph a commercial invoice you know we'll 
  have a type as the primary note so if you want to say you had a 
  commercial invoice and a pro forma invoice you have two notes at 
  both these labeled invoice invoice for the type of in how they 
  look.
Benjamin Collins:  You'd have to go through and look at okay type 
  invoice and then on top of that search for this attribute 
  performing voice true so you know say you had you know 10 pro 
  forma invoices and like 20 invoices it would just show up as 30 
  invoices as nodes which could probably be good misleading.
Benjamin Collins:   You know.
Benjamin Collins:  This I think this would be better handled for 
  you know someone like this or.
Benjamin Collins:  Of blood who's consuming the json-ld and they 
  say like hey converted this to know so if you better if the nose 
  look like this.
Chris Abernethy:  Okay should we should we paying them to get 
  some assistance.
Benjamin Collins:  I'll go ahead and take this on this.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/816
Benjamin Collins:  Update bank account profile credentials a to 
  include commercial status section.
Benjamin Collins:  So this is so Pink So bank account can be 
  revoked if effectively.
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah it might be good if this person commented 
  on why they wanted to add this.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay add a comment to confirm in normal human 
  language what's going on here rather than just kind of a Jason.
Benjamin Collins:  If we get confirmation on that we can probably 
  add up bed for PR label on this but let's cycle back to that next 
  traceable cap section.
Benjamin Collins:  It looks like there too.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/819
Benjamin Collins:  Okay I guess it's good because it's on the 
  call to say is this a dupe.
Benjamin Collins:  The previous one.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay and then we get confirmation from that we 
  can go ahead and close the duplicate.
Benjamin Collins:  Avoid schema.org data types.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/573
Benjamin Collins:  What is the side to me.
Benjamin Collins:  OC schema.org data type should be avoided 
  because there are not indexed by semantic repositories and our 
  home for interoperability see secured our discussion plenty of my 
  chicken was that 70% of schema date found in the world are in 
  fact xsd date and not schema daytime okay so this is a specific 
  type.
Benjamin Collins:   Please action.
Benjamin Collins:  When all the daytime address plus separate 
  issue is filed.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay so I'm going to create a checklist for 
  me.
Benjamin Collins:  Say first thing I need to do is scan through 
  the code to find.
Benjamin Collins:  Being used and then from there it would be to 
  either open a pull request or edit her probably first edit the 
  issue to make the action items very clear and then have a poor 
  request that addresses those specific items.
Chris Abernethy:  Is he suggesting that we not use any schema or 
  data type or just a daytime looks like any schema.org data type.
Benjamin Collins:  The do you want to edit the issue name to 
  address nut.
Chris Abernethy:  I don't think so I mean in his.
Chris Abernethy:  Initial comment he is grabbing for schema.org 
  date number Boolean text time and URL so it sounds like he is in 
  fact talking about all data types.
Chris Abernethy:  Whereas already suggested that the issue can be 
  closed and all date-time types are addressed.
Benjamin Collins:  I think it would be a lot easier too.
Benjamin Collins:  Keep this narrow and just focus on the daytime 
  aspect and if there are other specific ones that come up look for 
  create other issues for those.
Chris Abernethy:  I would think that his intention was to in fact 
  specify all of these and that we should create issues for them 
  before closing this.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay well let's see I'm going to the the 
  easily I'm going to take the easy two for a way out on this and 
  say I think the action item for me is to create a.
Benjamin Collins:  Or I could do that I could grab and create a 
  test list of specific what needs to be changed for all these and 
  then create create the issue that can be tackled.
Benjamin Collins:  So I think that we're so basically it with 
  with with daytime there's a specific.
Benjamin Collins:  Proposal for what needs to be addressed with 
  that and then the other ones we could say okay we found these 
  instances what should these instances be changed too.
Benjamin Collins:  I think that should work.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/462
Benjamin Collins:  Okay next is 2462.
Benjamin Collins:  So this is.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay this is my issue and this is I think this 
  is effectively outdated now that we're in lining all the 
  credentials before we were kind of going for the style of you 
  know invoice contains a product product contains a commodity of 
  like linking the problem is that that kind of approach of 
  creating smaller units means that the size of our.
Benjamin Collins:   Our credentials like blue.
Benjamin Collins:  Exponentially with stuff that wasn't needed 
  and so.
Benjamin Collins:  Proposed that we should do that but my mood 
  assigned himself to this we put as pending close last one I'm 
  going to go ahead and close this issue and if someone wants to 
  resurrect it they can.
Benjamin Collins:  Section on gs1.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/700
Benjamin Collins:  This is pretty straightforward or a made the 
  comment Paul said I can take this and then we can just paint 
  Poland say any updates.
Benjamin Collins:  See is there anything else we want to.
Benjamin Collins:  This issue on the call or is that enough.
Chris Abernethy:  I think that's good.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/702
Benjamin Collins:  Alright next one is 702.
Benjamin Collins:  This is reflect new ID requirements from Trace 
  interrupt.
Benjamin Collins:  Specks of drifted presentation must be seen to 
  with presentation credentials credential examples must be a 
  updated to use only uuids looking for volunteers on this might 
  have resulting ideas we need to be able to fit in I think 
  currently.
Benjamin Collins:   The oh.
Benjamin Collins:  It can we have is an iri.
Benjamin Collins:  Do you want to create a very specific regex 
  for the kind of your and the format needs to be.
Chris Abernethy:  Not sure on this one.
Benjamin Collins:  That's the question on the issue.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay I asked you a question on the issue and 
  we can kind of move on.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/270
Benjamin Collins:  All right that's one is 270.
Benjamin Collins:  Is think they do nothing problems versus 
  classes no one is assigned.
Benjamin Collins:  Some mistakes in semantics we have a lot of 
  back and forth on the thread.
Benjamin Collins:  And we're trying to Ping flood to get some.
Benjamin Collins:  Clarification but that was back in June with 
  no more updates on flood and or you suggest a closeness in March 
  so I guess we just want to add the label pending close there's no 
  more updates on this threat.
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah I mean this is just been languishing for 
  so long but I mean at the same time or he did acknowledge that 
  these were bugs that needed to be fixed so I'd hate to lose sight 
  of that.
Benjamin Collins:  I agree but you know it's kind of.
Benjamin Collins:  It's also kind of frustrating for you know fly 
  to come in and say oh this sucks and it's like okay you know we 
  agree we acknowledge that what should we do and then we just kind 
  of get ghosted on you know on the actual path forward for it so.
Benjamin Collins:  I'm going to go ahead and put a pending close 
  and if there's no more updates next time we see this weekend.
Benjamin Collins:  Thing but you know I completely agree with 
  want to get feedback rather than actually using that's.
Chris Abernethy:  Okay makes sense.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/822
Benjamin Collins:  Next one is a 22 from told Ted and this is 
  pointing back to 815 so this is singular versus plural Ted can 
  you.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Yeah this is 
  just the best practices question singular is generally preferable 
  to plural in.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Naming of 
  things like this.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It's not a 
  big deal many people consider the word instructions to be 
  singular.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay put a comment on that and this is from a.
Benjamin Collins:  See where it says change being applied update 
  requirements.
Benjamin Collins:  Presentation is this in the respect document.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Oh golly I 
  don't remember.
Benjamin Collins:  Postal separate VR so it looks like it is in 
  the respect document let's see it says holders should ensure the 
  previous presentation was accepted before presenting and 
  instructions for hesitation within instructions properties are 
  included that each array of credentials ID is this even the 
  standard estimates.
Benjamin Collins:   For which property.
Benjamin Collins:  The should be performed on the credentials 
  defined in the specification named our update and delete.
Orie Steele:  Can you link to the respect document draft that 
  you're commenting on or tissue in the chat.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/815/files
Benjamin Collins:  Yeah let's see this.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/822
Benjamin Collins:  This is the issue let's open the Respec 
  document.
Orie Steele:  DeNiro I made mostly just to lose that document 
  because I think I know what this is.
Orie Steele:  So there was a pull request that was merged That 
  was supposed to cover updates to previous presentations and then 
  there was debate around different more complicated versions of 
  that I don't think got clear consensus.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-vocab/#presentation-replacement
Orie Steele:  To me like potentially the respect document 
  contains text that doesn't reflect consensus that needs to be 
  removed it's kind of like the high-level overview.
Benjamin Collins:  Yeah I tend to agree with that looks like this 
  section is five point one point six and.
Benjamin Collins:  This is the update remove presentations part.
Orie Steele:  This seems fine to me so the respect document seems 
  correct the issue seems stale and I might suggest is closing the 
  issue.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay let's see and oh instructions are not 
  included here now.
Orie Steele:  Right they were included in Mike's like proposed 
  thing that never got concerns it and that didn't get merged so we 
  have an issue filed on something that isn't in the document so 
  the issue is sort of stale and regarding a discussion that was 
  resolved by not doing the more complicated and confusing thing.
Benjamin Collins:  Are you heading closing with comments.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay the next one is.
Benjamin Collins:  Besides sections linked data.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/271
Benjamin Collins:  Instruction here we go next one is 271.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay another one from glad for this example in 
  270 has two more problems purchase does not exist even if it did 
  I don't see how I purchased can be semantically and equivalent to 
  related documents purchase it's rare that you bent a lot of 
  discussion.
Benjamin Collins:  Looks like we actually have the less comments 
  from flood attachment shows 161 schema terms traceability schemas 
  the you make a new head request for each of these Uris and see 
  whether they resolved here's the mistake lowercase terms of 
  property it cannot be used as a type.
Benjamin Collins:  Anyone summarize what's going on in this 
  thread.
Benjamin Collins:  The answer seems to be no.
Orie Steele:  Are we still talking about 271.
Orie Steele:  It's basically just a high-level comment we're not 
  using rdf predicates and types consistently or correctly and you 
  know for this kind of issue it's always kind of hard to resolve 
  these because.
Orie Steele:  Now concretely you might have a problem in a 
  specific rdf data month data model instance that you would want 
  to correct but in the abstract you're just dealing with a you 
  know varying degrees of correctness in your.
Orie Steele:  S nld definitions.
Orie Steele:  I guess I would suggest closing any kind of issues 
  that are like fix everything and instead file specific issues for 
  cases where the rdf data model instance has some flaw that you're 
  trying to correct so we know for example if you use type 
  identifier incorrectly in some credential that you care deeply 
  about and you would go fix it in that credential but you might 
  not go fix that kind of rdf stuff in the abstract in all places.
Orie Steele:  My recommendation would be to close it because it's 
  an actionable issue that basically just covers improve things 
  everywhere which is you do want to do that but it's kind of hard 
  to use the issue to track it and I don't think someone's going to 
  close this particular issue the way that it's raining.
Benjamin Collins:  I agree it while you were talking about skinny 
  back through it twice and it looks like blood for see it should 
  be able to reopen twice again and so I think we want to have 
  narrow issues around a specific scope.
Benjamin Collins:  Wrong use of item list.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/569
Benjamin Collins:  Another one from glad.
Benjamin Collins:  Scroll down to the last issue removing types 
  Mentor guy Timeless I'm afraid that doesn't fix it simple from 
  revocation list status several mistakes here revocation list 
  index is an integer position search method schema position made 
  integer.
Orie Steele:  Oh this is all declined to implement because it's 
  controlled by a w3c technical recommendation now so like we're 
  not in control of we don't Define stuff anymore we just need to 
  cite the work item that does to find this I'm going to share 
  here.
Orie Steele:   In the.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): What's the 
  score.
Orie Steele:  Basically I shared a link to the w3c repo and I 
  said we should close the issue because.
Orie Steele:  We're not defining revocation list related stuff 
  that's the w3c's area now.
Benjamin Collins:  I'm not going to go ahead and close the issue 
  and like and comment and reopen if we need to but I kind of want 
  to be aggressive closing that if it's not a work item.
Orie Steele:  Yeah I mean if he wants to make Corrections he 
  should make them to the w3c work item so everyone who implements 
  that spec and benefit.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/575
Benjamin Collins:  Alright next one is 575 inflation of value 
  somewhere 25 someone for some skewers by several terms to skua 
  Value which makes it impossible to distinguish least twice 
  featuring rdf.
Benjamin Collins:  So total order value so numbers are not 
  distinguishable looks like Vivian was assigned to this but she's 
  not on these calls anymore so we.
Orie Steele:  So for this one my recommendation would be each 
  company and I should confirm the credentials that they care about 
  are defined correctly and then they should open issues for any 
  problems in their specific credentials that they out and it is 
  real if we should fix this for specific credentials and he gives 
  a bunch of examples here.
Orie Steele:  We could potentially create a separate issue for 
  each of the types that he's claiming are broken.
Orie Steele:  And then close this.
Orie Steele:  What it what if our folks want to handle it I mean 
  if there are things that are incorrectly defined and we know 
  where they're incredibly to find it's an actionable issue we 
  should either fix it or.
Orie Steele:  Leave the issue marker open because it's still a 
  real problem.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): Yeah this does seem like a pretty 
  straightforward fix I can do this for the AG schemas 
  theoretically I guess I'm not as familiar with the other schemas 
  and I don't want to step on any toes actually yes I the egg 
  scheme this is probably enough of a task I can.
Orie Steele:  Yeah I would not volunteer to do anything other 
  than fix this issue in every schema that you specifically care 
  about and I would give the action item to miss and then you know 
  maybe take a look and see if it applies to us if it does let's 
  track it separately in more specific way.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): Were you saying something about.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): Starting a different issue for different 
  companies and groups of schemas or I can just use this issue.
Orie Steele:  You can use this issue but I think this issue needs 
  to be closed at some point and.
Orie Steele:  Would be nice to sort of create separate issues and 
  then close this one and then have each of those smaller issues 
  actually be closable.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I might 
  suggest putting in something of a checklist here of the things to 
  be done and then once whatever they are whether they're opening 
  12 new issues or One Mini issue or.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): When all the 
  check boxes that are here are checked off then this can be 
  closed.
Orie Steele:  Yeah I agree.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): It's okay yeah I can make an issue for egg.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay so I created a pathless at the top so 
  Russell creates an issue for agriculture and been in this create 
  an issue for steel and once these separate rates have been 
  created and this issue is complete does that sound okay.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/575#issue-1378013237
Benjamin Collins:  I'm specifically talking about it looks like 
  GitHub allows the maintainers to create a test list so that seems 
  like something we should take advantage of.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Yeah that's a 
  nice new thing I might suggest instead of the human names they're 
  to use their GitHub tags.
Benjamin Collins:  It didn't come up with that was my thinking to 
  it didn't come up with the suggestion but I can try to fix that 
  so.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Might be 
  better out of band but yeah.
Benjamin Collins:  Name okay I list fix it for Russell but I 
  don't think it I like it does highlight and Link it okay.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/826
Benjamin Collins:  Okay but anyways yeah that's it for that issue 
  and then we can fix the other issues.
Benjamin Collins:  X issue is 826.
Benjamin Collins:  This is from blood again.
Benjamin Collins:  Current choice of delimiter is Hash however 
  it's not appropriate large symmetric collections like 
  traceability slashes better.
Benjamin Collins:  Transit / are of so all the good data patterns 
  book.
Benjamin Collins:  Disability / transfer mode / are so this is 
  saying don't use fragments effectively.
Benjamin Collins:  I'm just going to express a little bit 
  frustration of the flood in these fix of the things issues.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Yeah I think 
  that's an ongoing frustration across the board.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It's not to 
  say that his issues are not inaccurate they're just huge.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): And it might 
  be I mean he's not going to come back really to these.
Orie Steele:  Yeah I think these are the kinds of things where 
  best case scenario we do a checklist we split them up we close 
  them you know get them into smaller pieces that could be 
  addressed by people who are regularly attending and opening pull 
  requests.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I think it's 
  also reasonable although he may complain about it at some point 
  to say in all of them this is too big to be actionable you're 
  correct that it's a problem but we can't we can't parse it well 
  enough with.
Orie Steele:  Yeah I'd be okay with that as well.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): And instead 
  of closing them as completed close them as won't fix or whatever 
  so that it's it's clear we didn't touch it.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It might also 
  be worth while throwing in some labels like got it a help wanted 
  or.
Orie Steele:  Yeah better labels is is the thing we could we 
  could definitely do better labeling.
Benjamin Collins:  Yeah I think what kind of the Gap and I'm kind 
  of identifying right now is like needs to be broken down label in 
  terms of like when when is the correct time to create the 
  checklist because you know that seems like something we're not 
  going to do out-of-band so it might be a good idea too.
Benjamin Collins:  I don't know if it takes time is it better to 
  just do less issues and more checklist on these calls.
Benjamin Collins:  Or see I'm pulling up traceability.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-vocab/contexts/traceability-v1.jsonld
Benjamin Collins:  So if we pulled the traceability contact 
  should we just ask in the thread of hey Vlad can you.
Benjamin Collins:  Create a list of suggestions.
Benjamin Collins:  I asked on the thread to say is this a blanket 
  copy replace for all of the instances from hash to slash or is it 
  selective and I think the path forward will.
Benjamin Collins:  Different depending on the answer there.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/832
Benjamin Collins:  So it's this is from night program that's one 
  is it 32.
Chris Abernethy:  A great time then.
Benjamin Collins:  Yeah we're time okay.
Benjamin Collins:  Not not that I don't like hosting or anything 
  or put it up.
Benjamin Collins:  All right let's let's go ahead and wrap it up 
  here I think I think it might be a good idea just to see if there 
  are my total take away from this call is if there are issues 
  without checklist and we should stay on that issue until we have 
  a checklist and just keep crunching through them potentially.
Benjamin Collins:  Other than that thanks for attending the call 
  I guess I need to Chris for confirmation are you going to post 
  the minutes.
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah I can post a minutes if you make sure 
  everyone gets booted and cancel recording we should be good to 
  go.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay let's see I think I can stop recording 
  now.
