[2023-11-28T18:33:30.302Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-11-28T18:33:30.303Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-11-28T18:33:39.086Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-11-28T18:33:41.679Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2023-11-28T18:34:13.642Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-11-28T18:34:50.856Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-11-28T18:37:05.343Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	+1
[2023-11-28T18:37:30.713Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	No meeting on Dec 19. 30 minute meeting until the end of the year.
[2023-11-28T18:38:10.591Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-11-28T18:38:10.592Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-11-28T18:38:22.543Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Actually starting to start in Tokyo and is anybody able to read.
[2023-11-28T18:38:22.699Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah completely forgotten.
[2023-11-28T18:38:28.741Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: And then I will check since it doesn't transcribing this I'll kick the transcriber.
[2023-11-28T18:38:36.551Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/595
[2023-11-28T18:38:41.840Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe+
[2023-11-28T18:39:11.604Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I have made improvements since last week. Waiting for approval from Tod. I want GS1 to look at it.
[2023-11-28T18:39:24.959Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/605
[2023-11-28T18:40:04.245Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: This is opened Russel, who is not here today. Can anyone speak on this?
[2023-11-28T18:40:42.002Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I think we decided onsd-jwt and json-ld which we agree on.
[2023-11-28T18:40:59.761Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I think that was the case too, so I'm looking at what's pending.
[2023-11-28T18:41:46.493Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/909
[2023-11-28T18:42:00.044Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: let's move over to tace-vocab. we'll start with the merge-first one.
[2023-11-28T18:42:21.911Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This adds a lot of formats on id's and dates in general. and it makes a lot of changes all over the place.
[2023-11-28T18:43:11.402Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: It changes multimodal blll of lading to datetime. It defines the format but not the type, is that intentional?
[2023-11-28T18:43:54.801Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://opis.io/json-schema/2.x/formats.html#:~:text=invalid-,date%2Dtime,%3A%3ADDThh%3Amm%3Ass.
[2023-11-28T18:44:07.822Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	YYYY:MM::DDThh:mm:ss.
[2023-11-28T18:44:28.247Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	YYYY:MM::DDThh:mm:ss. sTZD
[2023-11-28T18:44:34.092Z]	<nis>	2017-07-21T17:32:28Z
[2023-11-28T18:44:36.252Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	"date-time. A string is valid against this format if it represents a date-time in the following format: YYYY:MM::DDThh:mm:ss. sTZD"
[2023-11-28T18:44:39.113Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	lol
[2023-11-28T18:44:49.898Z]	<nis>	https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339#section-5.6
[2023-11-28T18:45:05.020Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	Jitsi does that smiley change... IRC does the right thing.
[2023-11-28T18:45:22.298Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	quick check of backticking `YYYY:MM::DDThh:mm:ss`
[2023-11-28T18:45:25.093Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	nope
[2023-11-28T18:45:33.867Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/911
[2023-11-28T18:45:35.047Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: we'll go ahead and merge
[2023-11-28T18:45:57.647Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/906
[2023-11-28T18:46:24.721Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This one adds country as a type. And Ted has a few wording changes.
[2023-11-28T18:46:38.065Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/907
[2023-11-28T18:47:55.590Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Packing list is an important credential in terms of international transport. It hasn't been in super great shape, so I inlined it, and aligned it with consignment item the Cfact term.
[2023-11-28T18:49:05.401Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/910
[2023-11-28T18:49:54.734Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: The digital passport schema is still evolving. I believe that we will need a way to link upstream in the supply chain. I think there will still be changes.
[2023-11-28T18:50:01.666Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: How long have we had this?
[2023-11-28T18:50:09.681Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I added this about a month ago?
[2023-11-28T18:50:17.349Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Is this a digital twin of the product?
[2023-11-28T18:50:55.676Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: It's a european commission legislation coming on the horizon. They're going to roll it out on batteries and then tectile and then all products. It's to promote reduce, reuse, repair, evt.
[2023-11-28T18:51:35.424Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: This is a link, is there also a digital product passport schema?
[2023-11-28T18:52:17.830Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I'm not sure what you mean?
[2023-11-28T18:52:32.472Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I think it's before when we separated out the credential schema.
[2023-11-28T18:52:58.803Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: No, this is being defined inline. So I just defined it inline in this case.
[2023-11-28T18:53:16.786Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Can you create an issue to make sure we have a class for this?
[2023-11-28T18:53:44.302Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/911
[2023-11-28T18:54:30.820Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is expanding the licensing model that we have. This is when you lease out your IPR for others to manufacturer or market.
[2023-11-28T18:54:39.564Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Have you seen this in use?
[2023-11-28T18:54:52.189Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: In real-world, but not in credentials.
[2023-11-28T18:55:06.435Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: This sounds like a new use-case.
[2023-11-28T18:55:21.419Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is part of the eCommerce segment of the vocab.
