[2023-04-18T17:32:17.223Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2023-04-18T17:32:19.688Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-04-18T17:32:20.408Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-04-18T17:32:25.518Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-04-18T17:32:39.188Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-04-18T17:34:32.326Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-04-18T17:34:39.120Z]	<Orie>	I just joined
[2023-04-18T17:35:14.003Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe+
[2023-04-18T17:35:23.841Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-04-18T17:35:23.841Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-04-18T17:35:31.477Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): I don't know I don't know what happened.
[2023-04-18T17:36:29.435Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-04-18T17:36:29.435Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-04-18T17:36:56.892Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Today we're doing trace-interop, we will start with PR's
[2023-04-18T17:37:27.221Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: On the trace-interop side there is only one draft PR from Mike. We have pinged him the last several meetings with no response.
[2023-04-18T17:37:41.461Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: We can ask him about the timeline about that PR.
[2023-04-18T17:37:57.453Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: We have switch to the trace-vocab PR's
[2023-04-18T17:38:06.374Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/735
[2023-04-18T17:38:17.657Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Topic: trace-vocab PR's
[2023-04-18T17:39:27.197Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: This PR was supposed to be simple, but there were issues I encountered when working on it. So I fixed errors in test that I'm not sure why other people weren't seeing. Essentially all this does is change the default vocab to use the term for the vc-data-model.
[2023-04-18T17:40:24.940Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: We still get the ability to track undefined terms. But for now we're not defining a new term, we're using the same one as the v2 option. It is possible for us to define a term that differs from the core data model, but I don't think we need to.
[2023-04-18T17:40:44.967Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I was going to ask you if there are two vocabs, which one wins. But it sounds like the last one wins.
[2023-04-18T17:41:14.409Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: The JSON-LD processor determines that behavior, but as far as I know, the last @vocab defined is the one that get's used.
[2023-04-18T17:41:54.976Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: When we migrate to v2, can we remove the @vocab expansion?
[2023-04-18T17:42:24.994Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: we could potentially, the downside of that would be to have v1 and v2 have the same behavior, but if we remove it it would only work with v2, not v1.
[2023-04-18T17:42:44.553Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Do we know if there is a plan to deprecate the v1 context?
[2023-04-18T17:43:08.501Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: That file is forever, it seems like they are committed to keeping that file up indefinitely.
[2023-04-18T17:43:46.146Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-04-18T17:43:47.489Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Looking at the PR, it looks like there are three approvals, so are we good to merge?
[2023-04-18T17:43:57.934Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/736
[2023-04-18T17:43:58.547Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Merging now.
[2023-04-18T17:44:37.793Z]	<nis>	Hi folks - sorry I'm late!
[2023-04-18T17:45:22.762Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I opened this PR to have a conversation. Adding tests for the core data model is a little sus, but i wanted to show the upgrade from v1 to v2. We can maintain a parallel test suite for v2, but we need group consensus to do that. What ever we do is going to be experimental, and there could be breaking changes.
[2023-04-18T17:46:14.495Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I'm also going to be working on web token's and involved in that, so i'm not sure how much time I'll have to work on this, but I am committed to making this work well if others are interested in it. But for now this PR is not ready to be merged, it's not passing CI.
[2023-04-18T17:46:51.664Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I know this would be helpful as I know of some production-adjacent projects that are looking into v2.I see the VC-JWT, will there be overlap?
[2023-04-18T17:47:40.913Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: The two primary points for us to consider are credential schema and credential status, which we do use, but don't test anything beyond revocation list 2020. But i would like to see tests for status list 2021 in the core data model, and I would like to see more tests.
[2023-04-18T17:48:01.536Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: For statuslist 2021, it looks like that's on track, should we start adding tests to it?
[2023-04-18T17:48:12.154Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/711
[2023-04-18T17:48:33.173Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think it looks safe, and I think we should start adding tests and I can add those tests to the core data model. And I think we want end to end test for credential status and credential schema.
[2023-04-18T17:49:05.641Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I linked an issue, would we want to include the statuslist 2021 context in the context, since people seem to hate it.
[2023-04-18T17:50:06.333Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: That's relevant to the conversation going on the verifiable credential working group,. We could bundle that unto the traceability context. That can work, it makes our context already fairly large. This would make it a little bit bigger. But this is a little orthogonal to the pull request.
[2023-04-18T17:50:31.744Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	MahMoud: Is there any downsize to a large context?
[2023-04-18T17:50:48.227Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: There always is, every byte counts. But it depends.
[2023-04-18T17:51:04.525Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Is there something for signing depending on the size of the credential?
[2023-04-18T17:52:18.959Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: That's less sensitive for VC-JWT, but more impactful for linked data proofs. There is some performance for the size, but it's mostly around the terms that you use as you expand them. And for terms that are not used, there is a tiny hit, but probably doesn't matter as much as the terms that are being used.
[2023-04-18T17:52:49.086Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: You can imagine that if you named your terms poorly and used max url size, then processing the document will be more expensive.
[2023-04-18T17:53:02.308Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I've seen this a little bit on my side and wanted to ask about it.
[2023-04-18T17:53:31.194Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: This won't matter as much for v2 as we're not doing any n-quads. But if you convert to n-quads then it will be expensive.
[2023-04-18T17:54:06.114Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: If the delta isn't too heavy, i think the pull request at hand is important.
[2023-04-18T17:54:18.370Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I'm happy to do it if folks want to.
[2023-04-18T17:54:38.980Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/737
[2023-04-18T17:55:28.620Z]	<TallTed>	shouldn't we be using the least-recently-updated sort?  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-04-18T17:55:30.674Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: The next PR is fixing undefined terms in traceable presentations. What I wanted to ask was should there be a verifiable credentials array, or am i missing something?
[2023-04-18T17:55:53.551Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	for PR i went with order of opening
[2023-04-18T17:56:30.998Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: The verifiable credential array, technically it's an optional property. And not having it is used for did authentication. We could say that in our profile we're only doing verifiable presentations.
[2023-04-18T17:57:43.804Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Would we define that on the traceable presentation, where as verifiable presentation is supposed to be a cloned definition of the spec.
[2023-04-18T17:58:17.188Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: We could say that in our version of the profile, we don't expect to do authentication with credentials and we could make that field required.
[2023-04-18T17:58:34.573Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I think that might be a fair assertion to make, that our use case is for exchanging documents.
[2023-04-18T17:58:56.324Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: We don't have any workflows around defining authentication. I'll make an issue to talk about that.
[2023-04-18T17:59:12.761Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Yes, that's a separate issue, this pull request is about fixing the undefined terms.
[2023-04-18T17:59:25.965Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: The next one is about GS1 traceble workflows.
[2023-04-18T17:59:51.220Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is one we've worked on with GS1, these are the main ones. There's more that we're working on, But these are the main ones that define data for a product.
[2023-04-18T18:00:25.365Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Makes sense.
[2023-04-18T18:00:58.116Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Quick note about the Mermaid, it's nice that they're there, but can we provide the source for those diagrams instead of images?
[2023-04-18T18:01:09.044Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: yes, there is an issue for that.
[2023-04-18T18:01:16.924Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/740
[2023-04-18T18:02:05.401Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We narrowed down the packing list, we want to narrow down the schema.
[2023-04-18T18:03:02.278Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/743
[2023-04-18T18:03:10.051Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I wanted to ask about the snippets folder, do we have any documentation around that?
[2023-04-18T18:03:40.059Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	ben: Snippets is for cases when you don't want to pull in a full RDF class, and only use a subset of fields and be able to re-use it.
[2023-04-18T18:03:44.822Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I filed an issue for it.
[2023-04-18T18:03:49.714Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: Thanks
[2023-04-18T18:03:58.821Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/741
[2023-04-18T18:04:21.689Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: For this PR I cleaned up fields that weren't being used like name, description and related link.
[2023-04-18T18:04:35.603Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Didn't we make the assertion that name and description should alsways be there?
[2023-04-18T18:04:45.731Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think we said should, not must.
[2023-04-18T18:05:02.930Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I think you guys said you needed it for some reason.
[2023-04-18T18:05:39.579Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I can comment on this, v2 defines name and description, so we don't need to define it in our context. And i'll create an issue for that.
[2023-04-18T18:06:18.730Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: For RDF yes, as there's no reason to re-define those terms. But for a schema perspective, if we want those to be required, we'd need to define that here.
[2023-04-18T18:06:46.018Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: In terms of business logic, I don't think a lot of documents have name and description.
[2023-04-18T18:07:39.776Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I'll create an issue to track it, it might be a lower priority issue. But that's aside from this PR. But there are conflicts.
[2023-04-18T18:08:01.112Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: That's probably from my PR running the regenerate script. If we can merge it outside of the call.
[2023-04-18T18:08:05.689Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Okay, I'll make a note
[2023-04-18T18:08:35.560Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: That's all of the PR's is there anything else we want to bring up, or are we good to move to trace-interop issues?
[2023-04-18T18:08:42.489Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-04-18T18:08:52.192Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Topic: Trace-Interop Issues
[2023-04-18T18:08:56.877Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/490
[2023-04-18T18:09:32.063Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: There is merged PR that addresses.
[2023-04-18T18:10:27.976Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I know something about this. We have that workflow join monstrosity that uses it. I think we had talked about wanted to run an example of a workflow that would run the instance and definition for oil gas and ecommerce. And that would be something that's just show your intent to import credential.
[2023-04-18T18:11:13.705Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think we should pick this up very soon where we get rid of the huge test that we have, and then we make sure we have a presentation import id and then check for the intent to import id.
[2023-04-18T18:11:27.115Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/487#discussion_r1087967307
[2023-04-18T18:11:29.866Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie; This seems like a high priority issue to address.
[2023-04-18T18:11:58.439Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: It looks like there are two issues, the test suite and the documentation for it.
[2023-04-18T18:13:08.336Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I remember that he had a huge text PR where this was mentioned, and my impression was that text is up to interpretation, and we want to have very specific tests. Some of that might be better in the trace-vocab document. We have these two documents, one of is about exchange data models and the other is data models.
[2023-04-18T18:13:35.525Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: In a lot of cases for nonces, you're going to see them in both documents, but where do you make the normative requirement?
[2023-04-18T18:14:12.031Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I made notes for the test suite, documentation and anything else?
[2023-04-18T18:14:22.263Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: Do we want to get rid of the existing workflow instance join?
[2023-04-18T18:15:08.376Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: We built the data model to account for it, but as we get closer, it looks like we don't nee dot keep the test suite in there the way that it is.
[2023-04-18T18:15:25.319Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: For the issue, we want to assign someone to the test side, not the language side.
[2023-04-18T18:15:33.892Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Any volunteers?
[2023-04-18T18:15:40.007Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I will pick up the test.
[2023-04-18T18:15:52.047Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Sounds good I will assign you and Mike. Nis for test. Mike for test.
[2023-04-18T18:16:04.603Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	+1
[2023-04-18T18:16:19.907Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/538
[2023-04-18T18:17:39.687Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I really wish Mike was here for this one. We've had several conversations around this. I've seen you on the VC-API calls where they discussed it. If we talk about it, it would be you and me talking about it instead of me and Mike talking about it. And I wish we want to have more people on this.
[2023-04-18T18:18:51.361Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think he has made a test for this, but not made tests for multiple implementations. I think Mike wants to remove the DID Auth tests, but it seems like it hasn't gotten to the point where it's worth implementing. I asked Digital Bazzar, but they didn't provide an example. They might just say, "read the API spec and do what it's doing"
[2023-04-18T18:19:17.819Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: What we could do is ask Digital Bazaar if they tested against Energy Web.
[2023-04-18T18:19:20.442Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/538
[2023-04-18T18:20:14.088Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: In the interest of the original issue, I think we could remove the DID Auth, we know that we're the only implementer of that and we know we want to move to OAuth.
[2023-04-18T18:20:22.721Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: +1 on my end for removing them.
[2023-04-18T18:20:50.370Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: It means there is no way to send a message to anyone without security which might be where we want to go in terms of hardening.
[2023-04-18T18:21:25.067Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Do you know of any implementations that don't interact with OAuth security, i think we can remove it.
[2023-04-18T18:21:45.130Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think that it's a non-trivial amount to remove that. I know Mesur wanted to remove some of it.
[2023-04-18T18:21:57.939Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Do you know that issue? Maybe we reference that issue and close it here?
[2023-04-18T18:22:47.522Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I don't know which issue, only comments with Chris and Mike. I think we can comment on this issue and then ping thins. And then Chris can pick it up because he really wanted to do that.
[2023-04-18T18:22:51.747Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Sound sgood
[2023-04-18T18:23:00.875Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Interop profile getting thin.
[2023-04-18T18:23:05.701Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Yes, great!
[2023-04-18T18:23:07.112Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/534
[2023-04-18T18:23:59.884Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: This seems like a terminology clean up. Mahmoud if you wanted to do a huge terminology review this issue gives you cover to do that.
[2023-04-18T18:24:13.165Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I assigned this issue to me, I'll pick it up.
[2023-04-18T18:24:34.823Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/533
[2023-04-18T18:25:18.757Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: These are reasonably small changes that should be handled. I'll go ahead and assign it to me. And I'll do it in the same pass as the previous issue.
[2023-04-18T18:25:46.797Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: And I see the next six issues are from the same review. I'll see how much I can do in one PR.
[2023-04-18T18:26:11.533Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: If you can't tackle everything, leave a link to the issue in the spec and that will make it painfully clear that someone needs to come back and fix it.
[2023-04-18T18:26:11.656Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/529
[2023-04-18T18:26:46.244Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: There is one issue that needs discussion. What is out relation to the VC-API? We have said we are a specific profile. Is there anything specific we want to sa?
[2023-04-18T18:27:38.494Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: There are two definitions of profile. One is a strict subset, as well as a subset with some added stuff. And I think we're the latter. We're not implemented and then adding more stuff to be nearly our own thing at this point.
[2023-04-18T18:27:54.034Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: As we just committed to remove the DID Auth end points.
[2023-04-18T18:28:40.733Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think we can simply say that you do not need to reference the VC APi in order to understand what our profile does.
[2023-04-18T18:28:54.253Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: We are at time, is there anything else someone wants to bring up?
[2023-04-18T18:28:56.348Z]	<Orie>	Thank you!
[2023-04-18T18:29:02.853Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Okay, thank you!
[2023-04-18T18:29:05.094Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe-
