[2020-08-25T15:58:27.582Z]	<kimhd_>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Aug/0094.html
[2020-08-25T15:58:34.380Z]	<kimhd_>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:00:36.205Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:00:42.034Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:00:44.382Z]	<kimhd_>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Aug/0094.html
[2020-08-25T16:00:54.083Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:01:05.022Z]	<msena>	Hey all, here are the materials for Ceramic & Identity Index (IDX): https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FqNlvAmrA-hCXW8nMiI0GvzUPFDzVR-mnNcQLigOTMk/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-08-25T16:01:30.210Z]	<dlongley>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:01:47.894Z]	<kimhd_>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-08-25T16:01:54.250Z]	<msena>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:01:56.815Z]	<kimhd_>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-08-25T16:02:06.880Z]	<kimhd_>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-08-25T16:02:18.088Z]	<kimhd_>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-08-25T16:03:06.763Z]	<kimhd_>	q+ to mention something
[2020-08-25T16:03:17.422Z]	<kimhd_>	ack kimhd_
[2020-08-25T16:03:23.249Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:03:35.295Z]	<rocco>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:04:03.023Z]	<heathervescent>	Scribe: econnell
[2020-08-25T16:04:29.808Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic:  Introductions & Reintroductions
[2020-08-25T16:04:41.668Z]	<econnell>	Topic: Introductions and reintroductions
[2020-08-25T16:04:55.975Z]	<kimhd_>	msena
[2020-08-25T16:05:19.712Z]	<econnell>	msena: Involved in identity for a while, looking forward to being reintroduced and in moving forward
[2020-08-25T16:05:57.195Z]	<kimhd_>	dlongley
[2020-08-25T16:06:19.999Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2020-08-25T16:06:26.733Z]	<econnell>	dlongley: with Digital Bazaar, works on DIDs, VCs and vaults, has worked in the industry for over a  decade
[2020-08-25T16:06:29.118Z]	<kimhd_>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-08-25T16:06:38.516Z]	<econnell>	Topic: Announcements
[2020-08-25T16:07:04.696Z]	<econnell>	kimhd: need to update the announcement list. Identiverse is on the list, but has happened
[2020-08-25T16:07:06.275Z]	<heathervescent>	Yes, there will be an identiverse report out next month.
[2020-08-25T16:07:33.013Z]	<kimhd_>	: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-ed/blob/gh-pages/README.md
[2020-08-25T16:07:37.083Z]	<econnell>	...recurring meetings - this one, VCs for Education on Mondays - details at the meeting page linked
[2020-08-25T16:08:00.827Z]	<econnell>	...VC schemas discussed specific to education
[2020-08-25T16:08:16.978Z]	<kimhd_>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qYBaXQMUoB86Alquu7WBtWOxsS8SMhp1fioYKEGCabE/
[2020-08-25T16:08:19.979Z]	<econnell>	... DID resolution calls also on Monday, meeting page linked in irc
[2020-08-25T16:08:35.564Z]	<econnell>	...topics related to DID resolution work item
[2020-08-25T16:08:49.590Z]	<kimhd_>	https://forms.gle/HGGiFtgASUqWRqTLA
[2020-08-25T16:09:18.495Z]	<econnell>	... Secure Data Storage - Thursday calls, emerging draft specifications
[2020-08-25T16:09:27.678Z]	<adamjlemmon>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:09:53.236Z]	<wayne>	q+
[2020-08-25T16:09:54.114Z]	<econnell>	... Jitsi installation preview a few weeks ago - updated invites to that platform will be forthcoming
[2020-08-25T16:10:02.415Z]	<kimhd_>	ack wayne
[2020-08-25T16:10:06.379Z]	<kimhd_>	q?
[2020-08-25T16:10:10.917Z]	<kezike>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:10:17.144Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Progress on Action Items
[2020-08-25T16:10:22.153Z]	<econnell>	wayne: mostly it was Manu's efforts. thank you, Manu
[2020-08-25T16:10:25.760Z]	<kimhd_>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-08-25T16:10:33.576Z]	<econnell>	Topipc: Progress on Action Items
[2020-08-25T16:11:04.535Z]	<econnell>	kimhd: First one is a proposed work item now accepted
[2020-08-25T16:11:31.059Z]	<kimhd_>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/universal-wallet-interop-spec
[2020-08-25T16:11:34.963Z]	<econnell>	... Orie proposed it, then no activity, then a flurry of activity. Now work can get started - universal wallet interop spec
[2020-08-25T16:11:43.478Z]	<econnell>	... link posted in irc
[2020-08-25T16:11:51.984Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:11:52.483Z]	<kimhd_>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/123
[2020-08-25T16:12:08.371Z]	<kimhd_>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-08-25T16:12:08.917Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2020-08-25T16:12:09.927Z]	<econnell>	...Next work item - Issue 123 audio logs broken
[2020-08-25T16:12:35.810Z]	<econnell>	... there are meeting notes where audio isn't present, the problem is fixed going forward
[2020-08-25T16:13:00.931Z]	<econnell>	...there are roughly 6 mo where audio is missing - we call for volunteers to backfill this information
[2020-08-25T16:13:22.678Z]	<kimhd_>	ack heathervescent
[2020-08-25T16:13:23.807Z]	<econnell>	... if you want to get involved and contribute, this is a great opportunity
[2020-08-25T16:13:50.792Z]	<econnell>	heathervescent: we were thinking this is a great project for anyone wanting to get more involved
[2020-08-25T16:14:29.189Z]	<econnell>	...I will take a lead, and want 2-3 volunteers to go through a straightforward process to grab the data from DB servers and upload it
[2020-08-25T16:14:32.246Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:14:39.025Z]	<kimhd_>	q?
[2020-08-25T16:14:42.546Z]	<econnell>	... if anyone is interested, look for the email to the CCG list
[2020-08-25T16:14:51.666Z]	<econnell>	... needs at least 1 volunteer
[2020-08-25T16:15:17.770Z]	<econnell>	Topic: Cermaic Protocol Discussion
[2020-08-25T16:15:45.838Z]	<rocco>	hah - quick note - it's just Mike not myself re: presenting.
[2020-08-25T16:15:48.789Z]	<wayne>	q+
[2020-08-25T16:16:06.498Z]	<wayne>	q-
[2020-08-25T16:16:43.360Z]	<econnell>	msena: Thank you. Generally the structure is - introduce ceramic, go into details about specific ways it is being considered for use
[2020-08-25T16:16:50.132Z]	<brent>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:16:54.852Z]	<econnell>	... link to a google slide presentation in irc
[2020-08-25T16:17:00.911Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2020-08-25T16:17:23.078Z]	<econnell>	... ceramic is a data web for open applications, not exactly like a database, but you can think of it like global database
[2020-08-25T16:17:33.015Z]	<econnell>	...can be used for storing any data based document
[2020-08-25T16:17:35.395Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-25T16:18:07.164Z]	<econnell>	... treebox is a user managed datastore that let to ceramic
[2020-08-25T16:18:21.470Z]	<econnell>	...wanted a public network for managing data
[2020-08-25T16:18:42.364Z]	<econnell>	...any data that requires verifiabilty and cross collaboration
[2020-08-25T16:18:51.304Z]	<kezike>	Could someone repost the link to the presentation please? I think I joined after it was shared.
[2020-08-25T16:19:04.066Z]	<econnell>	... smart docs considered one of the most powerful ways to manage data on the web
[2020-08-25T16:19:22.210Z]	<econnell>	...meant for data that is owned by DIDs and ?
[2020-08-25T16:19:36.929Z]	<econnell>	... can use docs to define metadata
[2020-08-25T16:19:50.409Z]	<econnell>	... information integrity is built in
[2020-08-25T16:20:09.117Z]	<econnell>	...can form relationships between documents
[2020-08-25T16:20:22.426Z]	<econnell>	... the notion of programability is highlighted
[2020-08-25T16:21:07.523Z]	<econnell>	... you can program content in the same way others program money and assets
[2020-08-25T16:21:35.252Z]	<econnell>	... records are signed by DIDs and stored on the blockchain
[2020-08-25T16:22:11.411Z]	<econnell>	...slide 5 - other benefits are global discoverability
[2020-08-25T16:22:31.314Z]	<econnell>	... you can traverse the graph for related content
[2020-08-25T16:22:58.787Z]	<econnell>	... auditability, imposability, create links between docs,
[2020-08-25T16:23:28.570Z]	<econnell>	... composability of content is important, any DID can be used
[2020-08-25T16:23:41.424Z]	<econnell>	... a network that does not provide lock in
[2020-08-25T16:24:20.178Z]	<econnell>	... DIDs can be controlled with crypto keys means data isn't trapped, horizontal scaleablity
[2020-08-25T16:25:01.764Z]	<econnell>	... technology - DIDs, IPLD, web p-to-p, blockchain
[2020-08-25T16:25:21.386Z]	<econnell>	... content can be backed up to any storage system
[2020-08-25T16:25:45.205Z]	<econnell>	... protocol makes no requirements as to back up system
[2020-08-25T16:26:00.315Z]	<econnell>	... network itself is one global network, but no global state
[2020-08-25T16:26:19.993Z]	<econnell>	... each doc is handled individually
[2020-08-25T16:26:37.244Z]	<econnell>	... ceramic can scale to meet the needs of global conten
[2020-08-25T16:26:48.232Z]	<econnell>	... "content"
[2020-08-25T16:27:16.904Z]	<econnell>	... nodes can pin or watch a set of docs they care about
[2020-08-25T16:27:34.407Z]	<econnell>	... documents slide - gives an overview of the lifecycle of a document
[2020-08-25T16:27:45.274Z]	<econnell>	... each doc has a docid, owned by DID
[2020-08-25T16:28:22.589Z]	<econnell>	... you can include uniqueness or randomness to avoid clashes in creating genesis record
[2020-08-25T16:28:49.524Z]	<econnell>	... once it is anchored, proof of blockchain record, then it is attached to the doc
[2020-08-25T16:29:02.958Z]	<econnell>	... updates can happen with one commit
[2020-08-25T16:29:11.891Z]	<econnell>	... you can have anchoring services
[2020-08-25T16:29:39.612Z]	<econnell>	...you have scalability in these different ways
[2020-08-25T16:29:59.797Z]	<econnell>	... doc types are more of less just programs that govern state mutations of docs
[2020-08-25T16:30:10.025Z]	<econnell>	... requires certain content format
[2020-08-25T16:30:37.885Z]	<econnell>	... you can use ceramic to manage verifiable claims
[2020-08-25T16:31:03.194Z]	<econnell>	... every update is manage automatically
[2020-08-25T16:31:12.595Z]	<econnell>	... there's no extra checks needed
[2020-08-25T16:31:26.167Z]	<econnell>	... can run directly in browser or on a server in the cloud
[2020-08-25T16:32:04.060Z]	<econnell>	... creation of an identity index is highlighted
[2020-08-25T16:32:15.737Z]	<econnell>	... like a hub but without relying on a server
[2020-08-25T16:32:28.398Z]	<econnell>	... next slide overview of idx
[2020-08-25T16:32:45.218Z]	<econnell>	... you can have an index doc where keys are other ceramic docs
[2020-08-25T16:33:32.019Z]	<econnell>	... this structure provides a way for DIDs to provide mappings
[2020-08-25T16:34:47.263Z]	<econnell>	... users want a way to link many different accounts, and would like to manage encrypted data vaults, but don't want to rely only on servers
[2020-08-25T16:35:20.654Z]	<econnell>	... users for different use cases might want an optional layer with ceramic
[2020-08-25T16:35:51.307Z]	<econnell>	... you can create lists of users documents, to register DIDs
[2020-08-25T16:36:00.779Z]	<dbuc>	Are we conflating 'server' with 'piece of code that must run at a provider' - if so, I just want to note that nothing about EDV or Identity Hubs requires the latter
[2020-08-25T16:36:57.805Z]	<dbuc>	Not seeing how they would get the stream/throughput characteristics that you might want for many app use cases if all you could do is have your phone host your app backends
[2020-08-25T16:36:59.255Z]	<econnell>	... ceramic is live and available to check out, resources are there, code is on github
[2020-08-25T16:37:27.626Z]	<dbuc>	unless Verizon is cool with you basically eating 100s of TBs per month, along with basically melting your phone
[2020-08-25T16:37:32.759Z]	<econnell>	... github and discord have details
[2020-08-25T16:37:38.566Z]	<dlongley>	q+
[2020-08-25T16:37:45.964Z]	<kimhd>	ack dlongley
[2020-08-25T16:37:54.325Z]	<econnell>	... dlongley: thank you for presenting ceramic
[2020-08-25T16:38:18.688Z]	<econnell>	... this could fill a significant gap in the ecosystem
[2020-08-25T16:38:19.494Z]	<dbuc>	If course, we welcome work on Identity Hubs, if any of this is applicable to ingest as informative inputs
[2020-08-25T16:38:55.877Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Secure Data Store
[2020-08-25T16:39:47.025Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-08-25T16:40:12.106Z]	<dbuc>	q+
[2020-08-25T16:40:22.595Z]	<kimhd>	ack dbuc
[2020-08-25T16:40:24.054Z]	<wayne>	q+
[2020-08-25T16:41:39.624Z]	<econnell>	dbuc: can you precisely contract how you see servers (using that term loosely), depending on use cases, it might take quite a bit to run that on your phone, how does that work?
[2020-08-25T16:41:55.112Z]	<econnell>	msena: depends on the use case
[2020-08-25T16:42:28.898Z]	<econnell>	... some information could run on mobile device, other information you would not want to, and keep that on another server system
[2020-08-25T16:42:35.959Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2020-08-25T16:42:38.046Z]	<econnell>	... you can use both
[2020-08-25T16:42:49.938Z]	<dbuc>	The response seems to pose these as two different things, why is that?
[2020-08-25T16:42:55.826Z]	<econnell>	... provide a trusted open avail infrastructure for mappings and routings
[2020-08-25T16:42:57.417Z]	<dlongley>	query => ceramic => mediated/shared endpoints that point to EDV/Hub endpoints
[2020-08-25T16:43:11.845Z]	<kimhd>	ack wayne
[2020-08-25T16:43:30.549Z]	<econnell>	wayne: asking more about hubs, and can we look at use cases?
[2020-08-25T16:44:47.044Z]	<econnell>	dbuc: targeting use cases that half the apps on internet are fully public
[2020-08-25T16:45:04.483Z]	<econnell>	... first hit on piece of data are phone, and have side effects like battery life, etc
[2020-08-25T16:45:19.577Z]	<econnell>	wayne: what are jobs to be done by the hub?
[2020-08-25T16:45:43.372Z]	<econnell>	dbuc: specific to whatever the data is, like google keep or spotify
[2020-08-25T16:46:28.899Z]	<econnell>	... and, routes and relays messages
[2020-08-25T16:47:29.873Z]	<econnell>	wayne: what's the relationship between hubs and ceramic
[2020-08-25T16:47:53.139Z]	<kimhd>	ack agropper
[2020-08-25T16:47:54.433Z]	<dlongley>	i think ceramic allows discovery of hubs (and hubs use EDVs internally)
[2020-08-25T16:47:54.583Z]	<econnell>	dbuc: a shared effort to bring them together would be great
[2020-08-25T16:48:23.016Z]	<econnell>	agropper: would like to continue this discussion, mapping the world into policy decision points
[2020-08-25T16:48:52.494Z]	<dbuc>	dlongley: why would you not discover your Hub instance endpoints via your DID Document?
[2020-08-25T16:48:56.593Z]	<dbuc>	as a service endpoint
[2020-08-25T16:49:03.859Z]	<econnell>	... curious if both  daniel and michael would respond to how one would map a policy decision point model
[2020-08-25T16:49:08.218Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-25T16:49:14.984Z]	<econnell>	dbuc: policy is set by you
[2020-08-25T16:49:30.155Z]	<wayne>	https://ldapwiki.com/wiki/Policy%20Decision%20Point <- context for those not familiar with PDPs/PEPs
[2020-08-25T16:49:45.424Z]	<econnell>	agropper: stipulating separating the data storage point v policy decision point
[2020-08-25T16:49:50.579Z]	<dlongley>	dbuc: for all the reasons discussed in the DID WG -- GDPR concerns with VDRs and so on ... and that you might want to include *additional* information about the DID before anyone wants to ever hit that service endpoint (like, include a VC from a commonly trusted source, for example)
[2020-08-25T16:51:01.357Z]	<econnell>	dbuc: multiple modalities, if you don't have a series of musts at every layer, the issue that could happen is everyone configures their hub differently, and then interoperability breaks down
[2020-08-25T16:51:13.185Z]	<econnell>	agropper: how does ceramic deal with this
[2020-08-25T16:51:57.336Z]	<econnell>	msena: ceramic allows use of textile threads, and ?
[2020-08-25T16:52:17.920Z]	<econnell>	... you can use DID managed docs to give you access to a server in various ways
[2020-08-25T16:52:28.779Z]	<econnell>	... users have another layer of control
[2020-08-25T16:53:51.668Z]	<econnell>	agropper: is it decentralized across the web itself?
[2020-08-25T16:53:55.164Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-25T16:53:58.432Z]	<econnell>	msena: yes, exactly
[2020-08-25T16:54:10.945Z]	<heathervescent>	A++ econnell!
[2020-08-25T16:54:13.794Z]	<dlongley>	+1 thank you econnell!
[2020-08-25T16:54:15.944Z]	<wayne>	yes, thank you econnell
[2020-08-25T16:54:18.706Z]	<wayne>	excellent stuff
[2020-08-25T16:55:07.719Z]	<heathervescent>	voip: connections?
[2020-08-25T16:55:28.708Z]	<heathervescent>	voip: disconnect 300
