Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-08-29/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-08-29/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2023-08-29

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Aug&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Harrison Tang, Xavi Aracil, Greg Bernstein, Erica Connell, Oliver 
  Terbu, pauld gs1, Hiroyuki Sano, Japan, Jeff O - HumanOS, Mike 
  Xu, Gregory Natran, Benjamin Collins, Joe Andrieu, Phil L (P1), 
  Orie Steele, Kaliya Young, James Chartrand, Kimberly Linson, Leo, 
  kristina, Chandi Cumaranatunge, TimG, Dirk Balfanz, 
  ToddSnyderGS1, Benjamin Young, Henry Story, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Dmitri Zagidulin, Kristina, 
  David I. Lehn, Denver, Phil Long, Adrian Gropper, 
  ToddSnyderGS1US, Kayode Ezike, Kerri Lemoie, Brian Richter, Manu 
  Sporny

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: Watching Oliver I'll do the quick intro first and 
  then I'll kill you.
Harrison_Tang: Sounds good right so hello and welcome to this 
  week's w3c ccg meeting so this week we are very glad to have 
  Oliver here to present and lead a discussion on open ID for 
  verifiable credentials and verifiable presentations so before we 
  get to them in agenda just want to do a quick reminder on code of 
  ethics and professional conduct just want to make sure that you 
  know we acknowledge and respect each other's privacy.
Harrison_Tang:  perspectives feel free to make any comments and 
  things like that.
Harrison_Tang: Silence you know you keep in mind of the code of 
  ethics all right quick I denote anyone can participate in these 
  calls however all substantive contributions to atcg work items 
  must be members of the ccg with full IP our agreement sign I make 
  sure you have that w3c account and you have any problems or 
  encounter any issues in regards to sign up to a w3c account or 
  the mailing list just let it.
Harrison_Tang:  any of the cultures know.
Harrison_Tang:  these meetings.
Harrison_Tang: Corded and it's automatically transcribed we do 
  try to publish these meeting minutes within a day or two but if 
  you need it a little bit sooner just that any of us know.
Harrison_Tang: We used to teach at to Q speakers during the call 
  so you can type in Q Plus to add yourself to the Q where Q minus 
  2 to remove.
Harrison_Tang: All right any introductions or reintroductions if 
  you are new to the community or if you are if you haven't been 
  active and want to rename engage with the community please feel 
  free to just unmute and introduce yourself.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay I'll do a quick introduction my name is 
  Ben I'm from transmute and glad to be on the call today.
Harrison_Tang: Anyone else feel free to mute I'll mute.
Xavi_Aracil: Yes and let me introduce myself and tell me that you 
  like from one attack and curly based on in Barcelona Spain very 
  happy to be here.
Harrison_Tang: All right announcements or reminders you have any 
  announcements or any reminders feel free to just allow yourself 
  to the qy me.
Erica Connell:  Hi everyone yes it's Erica I just wanted to give 
  a friendly reminder that we're building the web of trust is 
  coming up September 18th through the 22nd in Cologne Germany I 
  will put a link to the Eventbrite in the chat all are welcome and 
  their scholarships and sponsorships available as well thanks 
  that's all.
Erica Connell: https://rwot12.eventbrite.com/
Harrison_Tang: Thank you Erica Clea.
Kaliya Young:  Hi all so friendly I'm Commander that we've got 
  the internet identity Workshop coming up October 10 through 12 in 
  Mountain View California and we also have sponsorships available 
  I'm going to put a link in the chat so folks who have don't know 
  about a how affordable sponsorship is can.
Kaliya Young:   To learn more about it.
Kaliya Young:  I have quite a few slots available and it's a key 
  component of helping the event run so I'll put a link to the main 
  website and also that sponsorship document for folks to look at 
  thanks so much.
Harrison_Tang: Any other announcements were reminders.
<kaliya_identitywoman> Event Website coming up October 10-12. 
  https://internetidentityworkshop.com/
Harrison_Tang: All right a quick preview of what's coming so next 
  week I will have already Mike Barack and others to kind of give a 
  update on the traceability and then after that we have machine 
  identity in Federated system so Justin Reacher will talk about 
  that and then after that we'll talk about Fido to and wipe all 
  thin and then the seconder September 26th will have selected 
  disclosures 48.
Harrison_Tang:  equities of value will be the discussion on that.
Harrison_Tang: Any other announcements were reminders.
Orie Steele:  Paris and just confirming that traceability status 
  updates happening next week.
Orie Steele:  Okay I think I have my dates wrong thank you.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you no thank you again sorry for the 
  confusion to regards to the scheduling and things like that so 
  thanks thanks Lori.
Harrison_Tang: All right any updates or comments on the work 
  items.
Harrison_Tang: Okay well let's get to the main agenda so this 
  week as mentioned earlier we're very glad to have Oliver taking 
  the time to present and be the discussions on open ID for 
  verifiable credentials and verifiable quick presentation so I 
  thank you Oliver for taking the time to present here and the 
  floor is yours.
Harrison_Tang: All-American go on me.
<kaliya_identitywoman> Link to learn more about our sponsorships 
  for IIW. It costs as much to sponsor IIW as it does to attend an 
  event like Identiverse ;) 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DgVYUJQLgnguFOicm91TjnrUIHyuiaWXhnZ36gvyamM/edit
Harrison_Tang: If you don't mind like if you don't mind can you 
  introduce yourself a little bit and then we can get right into 
  the presentation thanks.
<kristina> announcement! a new WG dedicated to OID4VC is starting 
  this thursday in OIDF!
https://openid.net/announcing-the-digital-credentials-protocols-working-group/
Kristina: Sorry Oliver if you can go back to the previous late 
  just a nod to confuse people open ID for credential Asians and 
  presentations or based on OS so we are talking about existing all 
  of us relying parties and OSS authorization servers being able to 
  leverage right all those of course backs so those two are 
  completely based on all us like you do not need to understand up 
  that you connect to be able to do that right so only.
Kristina: Of the provider which is synonymous with syndication 
  piece is still based on connect just being really clear because 
  you know that's why it's called open idea for a fabric with an 
  shows and not of midi connector profiled for credentials to 
  because it's fundamentally based on all of us who I deliver.
<orie> Does the new working group mean that all new verifiable 
  credentials protocol work should happen at OIDF, or is the OAuth 
  WG at IETF planning to do protocol work for VCs ?
<dmitri_zagidulin> ooh great question Orie
<orie> afaik, IETF OAuth will need a new charter to do that kind 
  of thing, so maybe OIDF willl absorb all the related work.
Harrison_Tang: Sorry sorry I'll live it like do you mind taking 
  like a couple questions right now or you want to do it again.
Harrison_Tang: I'm on it to the queue so Dimitri.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks I wanted to ask question before we got 
  too much from from the previous slides I wanted to ask about the 
  you mentioned that people can use existing open ID issuers also 
  open ID Lupe's identity providers for issuing credentials like 
  having having having tried to do that at least in the JavaScript 
  and the node ecosystem I find that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   That they're not able to write the like.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The VCI specs introduced new parameters new 
  API endpoints that the existing issuers don't have what am I 
  doing wrong.
<orie> might be a good question for stack overflow... how to add 
  custom claims to `id_token` from AS
Kristina: Seriously I don't think anything is wrong right so 
  again they are reusing all of us authorization servers and when 
  you'll get to the issuance part it will be clear but what issues 
  spec does it introduces a new resource server which you can 
  leverage using your existing authorization server and for 
  existing authorization server you can actually use it without 
  modifications if you're using a scope parameter to identify 
  which.
Kristina:  attention seeker requesting like for example.
Kristina: Shouldn't we are reusing Azure active directory which 
  is an existing authorization server which does not take any 
  modifications because it takes billion transactions a day to 
  issue credentials so you add eraser which is a new component 
  which you need to add from a scratch that's true you need to work 
  that but from the authorization server perspective you can reuse 
  up.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I see I see I think I was blocked by the 
  server I was using doesn't understand the credential definition 
  property and some of the other properties in the request.
Kristina: Yeah so that's our our that's translation details so if 
  you instead try to use scope but that would need you know the 
  wallet and the a sure knows that this scope stands for this 
  credential so you can map it back to format type whatever you 
  need once you define that that should be more straightforward.
<orie> we removed scope requirements from the trace-api to 
  support these cases recently.
<orie> (we had conflicting scope requirements, that we removed).
<orie> everytime I see presentation exchange, json pointers, I 
  imagine doctor strange searching for possible futures where the 
  avengers don't loose.
<dmitri_zagidulin> lol
<orie> would really love to see this working over SMS based 
  phones.
<dmitri_zagidulin> how does the web-based issuer open the wallet 
  app?
<orie> protocol handlers and deep links I assume.
Harrison_Tang: Yes Ori please.
Orie Steele:  So this EP working group at open ID Foundation I 
  think in the previous slide you mentioned you know some of these 
  open ID Foundation protocols already support see bore and compact 
  credential format so they're not attached to just Jason and 
  base64 URL encoded credential formats is that correct.
Dmitri Zagidulin: 
  https://openid.net/wg/digital-credentials-protocols/charter/
Orie Steele:  But my question specific to the DCP working group 
  meaning that there will be protocol work on non Json represented 
  credential formats at that working group all right.
Kristina: I mean we will be sorry and this would be working with 
  we will be working on opening day for a fabric credentials 
  protocols that is three that Oliver talked about and also we have 
  additional strayed documents being contributed security analysis 
  userinfo profile for dma act and they ble part they are all 
  agnostic for credential format and yes they will support the 
  Seaboard based binary Pro formats as well.
Orie Steele:  In terms of the protocols that are being built 
  there are they limited to mobile wallets only or is there room in 
  there for cloud identity service agent workload identity you know 
  cases where you have a credential holder that isn't a human and 
  doesn't have a mobile phone.
Kristina: Yeah so as Oliver mentioned nothing from prodigal 
  perspective limits the wallet to be a native app work the mobile 
  wallet so yeah we do support all the protocol itself does support 
  the words with the back in the cloud component or browser-based 
  words I think that's slightly different from where you're going 
  at which is kind of more server-to-server organization Awards 
  organization server kind of presentation so.
Kristina:  well technically because.
<orie> like wimse, etc...
Kristina: And all of us granted that's up you can already do that 
  but we have received recently increasing number of enquiries how 
  can people do this organization to organization kind of scenario 
  so we will be looking into that more.
<orie> "workfload and service identity"
<kristina> i need to catch up on wimse..
Kristina: What's patreon the cube do they send me three.
Kristina: Thank you - the sorry Oliver.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah I took myself off the queue although 
  could you drop them URL to The Whimsy spec.
Orie Steele: https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/wimse
Dmitri Zagidulin:  X if anybody has the URL to The Whimsy spec 
  handy the one that Oreos mentioning and thank you.
Orie Steele: https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/wimse/
<orie> i wil join when you switch to github
<orie> and not before
Harrison_Tang: Thank you Oliver Christian.
<orie> <3 !!!!
Kristina: Or we are changing to GitHub this Thursday so you'll be 
  able to have no more excuses not to drink.
Kristina: But yeah no you you don't have to be an opening the 
  foundation member to join the working of actually as long as you 
  sign an IPR agreement you can join the the coals right away yeah 
  so if anyone's interested they barrier to just call in and listen 
  in to the call is there was a really low you need to be a member 
  if you once we go to implementers draft and you want to vote on 
  specification that's when you need a membership.
Harrison_Tang: And Christina just to clarify earlier you 
  mentioned that there's a new working group form is that the 
  digital credentials protocol working group or is it something 
  else.
<orie> and its a paid membership like W3C? or free to participate 
  like IETF ?
Oliver Terbu: 
  https://openid.net/wg/digital-credentials-protocols/
<denver> is it possible to share slides?
Kristina: Correct yeah so we were doing all this work under the 
  ability connect working group in a paint Foundation until this 
  point but as you can see it's not connect really it's based on 
  all of us but still about identity so yeah we have a dedicated 
  working group to this and that will be using GitHub which we are 
  all really excited about.
Harrison_Tang: And I think already has a question is is that pay 
  membership like w3c or free to participate for the open ID 
  working group.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> WIMSE == 
  "Workload Identity in Multi-Service Environment" (not "Women in 
  Math, Science & Engineering" which is first suggestion from some 
  search engines...)
<orie> my goal is to not pay another SDO, I'm happy to sign IPR 
  agreements.
Kristina: Yeah so if your goal is to be able to comment on the 
  issues to the PRS approve your took be ours based on you know and 
  I pr protect with matter like obey Foundation does not require 
  they membership so you can do that you know as long as you sign 
  the IPR and you tell us that there no you know know I pr concerns 
  basically that's what we most care about the obviously 
  organizational membership is appreciated but that's.
Kristina:  more if you want to get voters.
<harrison_tang> ;(
Kristina: And where's our organization is going like how budget 
  is being spent what not like for a spec writing you don't need 
  membership.
<orie> awesome!
<kaliya_identitywoman> and individual memberhsip at OpenID is $50
Kristina: You're right it's 50.
Harrison_Tang: Any other questions.
<orie> just like an Apple developer license : )
Harrison_Tang: So this is a roughly a newbie question but I know 
  that there are multiple different kind of protocols were 
  competing standards right like open i0 open ID right we see like 
  we're seeing here and there's the date calm and there's no VC 
  apis and things like that I know the open ID my impression is I 
  hope ID is the most most popular it has the most options right 
  now but I'm just curious why.
Harrison_Tang:  what are the kind of pros and cons and question.
Harrison_Tang: We're which standards or protocols makes more 
  sense what the kind of the trade-offs.
Harrison_Tang: All right you want to go next.
<kaliya_identitywoman> <3 thanks Orie :)
Orie Steele:  I'm gonna duck the defend your favorite protocol 
  War bait but I wanted to ask regarding presentation exchange as a 
  component in open ID connect family specifications what is the 
  sort of open ID Foundation view of presentation exchange from 
  diff is that specification stable enough to build on.
<dmitri_zagidulin> @Orie - thanks, I had that same question
Orie Steele:  Ietf should it grow up more at diff should it move 
  to open ID Foundation just because as far as I'm aware this is 
  the first time anything in the open ID ecosystem has taken a 
  dependency on a specification that wasn't developed at ietf or 
  you know another reputable standards organization so I'm 
  interested in open ID foundations view of presentation exchange 
  as a dependency mandatory to support sort of sub.
Orie Steele:   Asian that's it.
Kristina: Or decided to substitute one tricky question with 
  another one yeah.
Kristina: But okay so.
Kristina: Everything you say is correct but right now.
<orie> yes, its true, thats called a backflip kick : )
Kristina: We are we appreciate the so we we have resumed closely 
  working with c-diff PE editors we had a couple of calls so we had 
  couple of remaining concerns so one was security so reg ex Json 
  schema and allowing anything pretty much like around that so they 
  are.
Kristina:  are good.
<orie> regex / redoss is a real thing.
Kristina: Happening around you know maybe you know prohibiting 
  the usage of reg ex and Jason pass for example so that 
  conversation is ongoing another part is.
Kristina: Yeah so I think right now the plan is to get a try to 
  work with the presentation exchange editors working group to get 
  the specification to a really stable reliable state which gives 
  those minimum functionalities and what we do observe is so 
  because the open the deeper VC protocols allow you know instance.
Kristina:  ability points you need a pro.
Kristina: For example the ice mdl like they have a clear-cut 
  profile to say this is sequential format this or identifier 
  sister kept of sweets what not right but people do is that they 
  tend to add requirements and of a presentation exchange like for 
  example the Mbox folks did at certain like Okay so this 
  identifier has to be a doctype or like this you know should be 
  this so that's what we observe realistically.
Kristina: If both of us are going sorry.
Kristina: Yeah into sorry quickly build up on a previous question 
  right.
Kristina: Yeah as much as yes you probably need some additional 
  work on top of your existing reservation servers they.
Kristina: There is a variable formed ecosystem so I think that 
  kind of people willing to leverage existing knowledge existing 
  infrastructure has been kind of a good pushing force so far.
<orie> nothing says confidence, like moving a spec to a tougher 
  arena of combat... I would like to see DIF specs make it to IETF 
  or ISO, and not stay stuck at DIF.... personally.
Harrison_Tang: All right any other questions.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Iif I've got a question what's the what's the 
  current state of the art thinking in the open ID for VC + VP 
  groups in terms of wallet selection like what's the I remember 
  there was some talk about may be working on a while it's selector 
  or yeah it's like what's the what's the latest thinking.
<kaliya_identitywoman> Wallet INVOCATION!!!! :)
<dmitri_zagidulin> nice
<orie> mDoc Request API supports wallet selection?
Kristina: Yeah so Dimitri I we haven't invented a voiceover actor 
  yet I think to thing that's happening is one is kind of 
  negotiations with the browser vendors and I think there'd be some 
  conversation that tpack in few weeks where we are trying to make 
  sure that if there is a wallet selector provided by you know 
  browser vendors what not it should you know work for like 
  different protocols and not just.
Kristina:  just the you know API so that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you that's huge.
Kristina: To have a nice wallet so action does not lock you into 
  the API provided by the browser's I think that's one side of 
  conversations ya know like we need all your help like to do that 
  because right now is the direction is oh you want the wallet 
  selector now you're forced to use this API so we don't want that 
  Ray so I think that's kind of where all your help us appreciate 
  it another side of conversation is the wallet at the station 
  recent conversation so I think that's the different ecosystem at 
  yours are starting to think about how do they.
Kristina:  you know make sure that the reliable trust about good 
  wallet so I think.
<kaliya_identitywoman> Where is the work going on re: wallet 
  invocation capabilities - like this is really key and can't just 
  be pushed off "into the future"
Kristina: You're starting to see is or these direction we're 
  thinking of is they wallet may be registered as a general kind of 
  custom URL scheme but the wallet you'll have to send the word at 
  the station to get the actual request objects that are very far 
  for example so the malicious wallet might be able to you know 
  start the flow but they won't be able to get the actual request 
  and continue so those kind of kind of mechanisms.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks I know we're almost at the top of the 
  hour but Orie is asking in chat if you could say a few more words 
  about doc request API Oliver mentioned that there's some sort of 
  custom UI could you say a little more about that how does MDOC 
  deal with while its election / invocation.
Kristina: It's an existing yet right so what's and ISO standard 
  right now is basically profile of open 84 BC re so what we have 
  been talking about is true at the same time like browsers are 
  trying to leverage that Forum to you know give like look here's 
  an API so the I think there is some first versions of those apis 
  for you know different companies or building but they are not 
  standardized yet that work to standardize those is hot.
Kristina:  how is about to be happenin.
Kristina: If ever sing like you know goes.
<kristina> openid4vp-mdoc:// :D
<dmitri_zagidulin> thank you Oliver, thank you Kristina!!
https://openid.net/wg/digital-credentials-protocols/
Harrison_Tang: All right thank you I think we're at time just 
  want to say thank you Oliver thank you Christina for coming here 
  and answering our spicy and tough questions was Oliver and 
  Christina has mentioned earlier there's a new working Group Forum 
  on digital credentials protocols we send the link right here the 
  meeting is that every third every other Thursday at 2:00 2:00 UTC 
  is that correct or.
Kristina: It's every Thursday sorry yeah it's every Thursday yeah 
  it just they Time Changes by our but we don't know how I think at 
  least one of the new DCP working of course will be Thursday 
  thanks for p.m. German time 8:00 a.m. or 7:00 a.m. Pacific but we 
  do have requests for a pack folks sitting might do something like 
  a rotating Coast like they say working with us so you'll see.
Harrison_Tang: All right thank you thanks a lot alright this 
  concludes today's call you have any last.
Harrison_Tang: Maybe in this click right this concludes this 
  week's meeting so thanks thanks a lot.
