[2023-10-10T17:31:32.238Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-10-10T17:31:32.239Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2023-10-10T17:31:55.222Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2023-10-10T17:32:08.839Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-10-10T17:34:55.105Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-10-10T17:36:08.816Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-10-10T17:36:08.816Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-10-10T17:36:25.027Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Cats recording we have the CG but we also have the auto transcriber.
[2023-10-10T17:36:33.481Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Do you want to have a in scrap or do you want to let the machine do its evil thing.
[2023-10-10T17:36:37.005Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I think we should I can Skype if you'd like me to.
[2023-10-10T17:36:38.361Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	scribe+
[2023-10-10T17:36:45.951Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: It's the right one.
[2023-10-10T17:36:59.735Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: We'll do a shortened call today, going through PRs
[2023-10-10T17:37:03.364Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2023-10-10T17:37:12.416Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/597
[2023-10-10T17:37:13.230Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
[2023-10-10T17:37:47.934Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Chris: Vocab or Interop?
Mahmoud: we're just doing PRs this week
[2023-10-10T17:38:16.124Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	chris: adds a negative conformance test, that makes sure that if you try to issue a credential with a duplicate key, a 400 should be returned
[2023-10-10T17:40:18.271Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Mahmoud: actually passing this test is quite difficult as body-parser and most json parsing libraries end up silently dropping all duplicate terms excep tthe last one
[2023-10-10T17:41:17.091Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Chris: That wasn't clear on the issue, maybe we should modify it to allow 400 or simply use last duplicate key
[2023-10-10T17:41:26.535Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Chris: Noting that on the PR
[2023-10-10T17:42:08.056Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/600
[2023-10-10T17:42:38.511Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: Moving to PR 600 https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/600
[2023-10-10T17:43:45.080Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Orie: this updates current state, but is not in line with latest changes. Its fine as is because it fixes an error
[2023-10-10T17:44:16.617Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Orie: Left a suggested change, once applied should be changed
[2023-10-10T17:44:17.635Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/886
[2023-10-10T17:44:23.015Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: Not merging on call, will merge out of band
[2023-10-10T17:44:41.881Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: This PR removes shipping stop that is no logner in use, seems straight forward
[2023-10-10T17:46:20.827Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Chris: there are two additions to the openapi.yaml, is it intended in this PR?
[2023-10-10T17:46:25.429Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/blob/main/docs/openapi/components/schemas/credentials/DCSAShippingInstructionCredential.yml
[2023-10-10T17:46:37.893Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/blob/main/docs/openapi/components/schemas/credentials/DigitalProductPassportDataCarrierCredential.yml
[2023-10-10T17:46:44.741Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Orie: Seems someone didn't commit those autogenerated updates, a previous PR was merged without those changes happening
[2023-10-10T17:46:57.918Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: attached the two credentials lookslike it just slipped in previous PR.
[2023-10-10T17:47:12.114Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/888
[2023-10-10T17:47:27.138Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: Next one is straightforward it just changes one file, where the ID was incorrect
[2023-10-10T17:49:21.450Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: if theres anything on interop we can go through that too
[2023-10-10T17:50:09.941Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Ben: Ending meeting now
[2023-10-10T17:51:22.994Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
