[2020-03-03T17:07:31.110Z]	<manu>	regrets+ manu
[2020-03-03T17:07:36.161Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:07:38.225Z]	<AnthonyRonning>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:07:46.239Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:07:46.544Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:07:52.933Z]	<Orie_>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:08:00.318Z]	<Balazs_DIF_>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:08:02.454Z]	<sumita>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:08:04.236Z]	<justin_r>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:08:25.882Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:08:52.581Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:09:12.963Z]	<ChristopherA>	agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Mar/0002.html
[2020-03-03T17:09:44.670Z]	<Orie_>	i'd like to discuss next steps on did-key, webkms if possible :)
[2020-03-03T17:09:46.237Z]	<davidm>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:10:29.628Z]	<jonathan_holt>	present+ jonathan_holt
[2020-03-03T17:10:59.574Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:11:14.555Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-03-03T17:11:27.125Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-03-03T17:12:46.677Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:13:28.442Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit#heading=h.ngyk8y939osi
[2020-03-03T17:13:51.394Z]	<Balazs_DIF_>	will we have SDS WG - DIF/CCG discussion on today's call? thanks
[2020-03-03T17:14:31.002Z]	<chriswinc>	scribe+ chriswinc
[2020-03-03T17:14:43.905Z]	<ChristopherA>	scribe: chriswinc
[2020-03-03T17:14:44.795Z]	<dmitriz>	scribe: chriswinc
[2020-03-03T17:14:46.436Z]	<chriswinc>	scribe chriswinc
[2020-03-03T17:14:49.996Z]	<JeffO-StL>	Apologies I can not help in that fashion!
[2020-03-03T17:14:50.927Z]	<chriswinc>	scribe+
[2020-03-03T17:14:55.343Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions & Re-introductions
[2020-03-03T17:15:05.975Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:15:29.529Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Mar/0002.html
[2020-03-03T17:16:04.241Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2020-03-03T17:16:05.713Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-03-03T17:16:30.041Z]	<burn>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:17:03.340Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: RWOT cancelled due to COVID-19, virtual hackathon offered as an option that week
[2020-03-03T17:17:17.254Z]	<chriswinc>	KNOW Identity April 5 also cancelled
[2020-03-03T17:17:54.480Z]	<chriswinc>	q+ KNOW Identity
[2020-03-03T17:18:22.659Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: end of April is IIW
[2020-03-03T17:19:06.682Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T17:19:10.987Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack chriswinc
[2020-03-03T17:20:09.708Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-03-03T17:20:10.261Z]	<chriswinc>	chriswinc: KNOW Identity status is unknown
[2020-03-03T17:20:31.114Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/105
[2020-03-03T17:20:38.082Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: Action items
[2020-03-03T17:20:54.529Z]	<burn>	s/KNOW Identity April 5 also cancelled/ChristopherA: KNOW Identity April 5 also cancelled/
[2020-03-03T17:20:56.114Z]	<Orie_>	+1 for closing / consolidating
[2020-03-03T17:21:09.733Z]	<Orie_>	happy to help move and close that stuff out :)
[2020-03-03T17:21:24.278Z]	<chriswinc>	... Community group up for closure
[2020-03-03T17:21:33.562Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+ to talk about remaining repos
[2020-03-03T17:21:38.854Z]	<Orie_>	q+
[2020-03-03T17:21:46.021Z]	<chriswinc>	... What do we need to do to close?
[2020-03-03T17:22:05.764Z]	<chriswinc>	dmitriz: We moved all the relevant repositories
[2020-03-03T17:22:21.624Z]	<chriswinc>	... redirects for github.io needs to be setup
[2020-03-03T17:22:48.800Z]	<Orie_>	q-
[2020-03-03T17:22:49.880Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-03-03T17:23:16.459Z]	<chriswinc>	JoeAndrieu: Would be great to have an abandoned list
[2020-03-03T17:23:41.408Z]	<chriswinc>	... people need an opportunity to fork them if necessary
[2020-03-03T17:24:08.457Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: If you are interested, please make sure you forward them into your own repos
[2020-03-03T17:24:27.656Z]	<chriswinc>	... Digital verification homepage also needs updating
[2020-03-03T17:24:39.775Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T17:24:40.065Z]	<chriswinc>	... Chairs will then formally close
[2020-03-03T17:24:42.655Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Action items
[2020-03-03T17:25:00.078Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/105
[2020-03-03T17:25:13.588Z]	<chriswinc>	... any questions regarding the closure? Attach them to issue 105
[2020-03-03T17:25:46.266Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/community/work_items.html
[2020-03-03T17:25:56.275Z]	<chriswinc>	... Action item focus items are decided every Thursday. Send a note to the chairs if you want something prioritized.
[2020-03-03T17:26:37.438Z]	<chriswinc>	... Work items page lists ongoing task forces as well as open items.
[2020-03-03T17:27:04.043Z]	<chriswinc>	... Start with a report from the DID resolver task force which meets on Thursdays.
[2020-03-03T17:27:24.836Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: CCG Work Item Reports; DID Resolver Task Force
[2020-03-03T17:27:56.983Z]	<kimhd>	ChistopherA: someone else from resolver task force to report?
[2020-03-03T17:28:24.815Z]	<markus_sabadello>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:28:42.856Z]	<kimhd>	ChistopherA: so....Markus
[2020-03-03T17:29:29.383Z]	<kimhd>	Markus: haven't done much on spec content, dependencies on DID core spec
[2020-03-03T17:29:41.136Z]	<juancaballero>	present+
[2020-03-03T17:29:52.134Z]	<kimhd>	...support for multiple reps of the did doc (abstract data model)
[2020-03-03T17:30:21.327Z]	<kimhd>	...such items affect did resolution (e.g. which representation the resolver returns)
[2020-03-03T17:30:30.494Z]	<kimhd>	...another such topic is matrix parameters
[2020-03-03T17:30:47.847Z]	<kimhd>	...a way of passing parameters
[2020-03-03T17:31:05.114Z]	<kimhd>	...discussion over whether they should be removed in favor of query params
[2020-03-03T17:31:13.345Z]	<kimhd>	...third major topic is metadata
[2020-03-03T17:32:04.188Z]	<kimhd>	...types of metadata to support, different categories of metadata (specific to the did doc, specific to resolution process)
[2020-03-03T17:32:14.400Z]	<kimhd>	...e.g. "created" property
[2020-03-03T17:32:27.287Z]	<kimhd>	...what does it mean
[2020-03-03T17:32:58.720Z]	<kimhd>	...not yet common agreement
[2020-03-03T17:33:51.374Z]	<kimhd>	ChristopherA: one reason for this separate group was that it's not in scope of did-core
[2020-03-03T17:34:03.015Z]	<kimhd>	...but I've heard discussion that it may be brought into scope
[2020-03-03T17:34:31.349Z]	<kimhd>	Markus: some support that resolution "contract" would be brought into scope
[2020-03-03T17:35:13.625Z]	<kimhd>	...but implementation details would stay separate
[2020-03-03T17:35:18.842Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T17:36:33.556Z]	<dmitriz>	q+
[2020-03-03T17:36:55.041Z]	<chriswinc>	Markus: we will be discussing the interface to DID-core and matrix parameters in the upcoming meetings
[2020-03-03T17:36:55.241Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack dm
[2020-03-03T17:36:57.820Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack dmitriz
[2020-03-03T17:37:42.948Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Open issue in the DID WG to discuss how much of DID Resolution should be shifted into DID Core: https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/198
[2020-03-03T17:37:48.924Z]	<chriswinc>	dmitriz: DID Web, multiple DID Docs
[2020-03-03T17:38:00.223Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Open issue about metadata: https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/65
[2020-03-03T17:38:07.288Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Open issue about matrix parameters: https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/159
[2020-03-03T17:38:24.562Z]	<chriswinc>	... e.g. can students host DID docs on an EDU hosted location? Is it legal in the syntax?
[2020-03-03T17:38:26.546Z]	<Orie_>	hosting .well-known on non root paths?
[2020-03-03T17:38:58.663Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: DID WG requires W3C membership
[2020-03-03T17:39:22.174Z]	<chriswinc>	... but the DID resolver task force only requires Community Group membership
[2020-03-03T17:39:26.824Z]	<dmitriz>	Orie_ â€” no, more like, specifying that IF there is no path component, then use .well-known/, but if there IS a path component, use that _instead_ of .well-known.
[2020-03-03T17:39:42.294Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T17:39:46.490Z]	<chriswinc>	...this is an opportunity to bring feedback
[2020-03-03T17:39:59.576Z]	<Orie_>	q+
[2020-03-03T17:40:04.420Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack Orie_
[2020-03-03T17:40:04.579Z]	<markus_sabadello>	DID Resolution weekly Thursday call: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qYBaXQMUoB86Alquu7WBtWOxsS8SMhp1fioYKEGCabE/
[2020-03-03T17:40:11.175Z]	<dmitriz>	so, it's like, can did:web:example.edu/users/dmitri/did.json refer to a different did document than did:web:example.edu/users/orie/did.json
[2020-03-03T17:40:28.056Z]	<chriswinc>	Orie_: We have work items for DID Key and WebKMS
[2020-03-03T17:41:11.847Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T17:41:25.590Z]	<chriswinc>	...moving repos from DigitalBazaar to central location. How do we do this to support broader work on these topics?
[2020-03-03T17:42:03.677Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: These are approved work items and the location of the work is up to the editors
[2020-03-03T17:42:19.662Z]	<chriswinc>	...when it reaches certain maturity, it should be moved to CCG
[2020-03-03T17:42:36.814Z]	<chriswinc>	...it may be time to do this.
[2020-03-03T17:42:56.313Z]	<ChristopherA>	action: add leads to https://w3c-ccg.github.io/community/work_items.html
[2020-03-03T17:42:57.898Z]	<chriswinc>	...are the leads of these work items present?
[2020-03-03T17:43:16.415Z]	<Orie_>	I am a code owner on webkms
[2020-03-03T17:43:18.054Z]	<chriswinc>	...action added to add leads.
[2020-03-03T17:43:39.395Z]	<Orie_>	but not on did:key :)
[2020-03-03T17:43:56.475Z]	<chriswinc>	dmitriz: Will bring up subject with Manu and DLongley
[2020-03-03T17:44:22.367Z]	<Orie_>	ok, I will tackle trying to move webkms along
[2020-03-03T17:44:28.800Z]	<ChristopherA>	action: @dmitriz to ask DB to consider moving did:web to CCG
[2020-03-03T17:44:41.338Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T17:44:46.898Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: Any other questions for these work items? None.
[2020-03-03T17:45:05.958Z]	<chriswinc>	...any other work items that would like to talk about status or ask for help?
[2020-03-03T17:45:09.260Z]	<ChristopherA>	topic: other work items
[2020-03-03T17:45:16.908Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T17:45:41.086Z]	<chriswinc>	JoeAndrieu: Some of these can move on e.g. DID use cases
[2020-03-03T17:45:43.756Z]	<manu>	manu: (from IRC) - happy to move WebKMS and did:key to CCG.
[2020-03-03T17:46:27.006Z]	<chriswinc>	...Use cases has been formally handed over. Document is out of date.
[2020-03-03T17:47:09.741Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: Steps to close this out include changing references, archiving
[2020-03-03T17:47:26.628Z]	<ChristopherA>	action: @joeandrieu will puzzle DID Use Cases how to wrap it
[2020-03-03T17:47:35.074Z]	<chriswinc>	...Can JoeA wrap this up?
[2020-03-03T17:47:56.094Z]	<chriswinc>	JoeAndrieu: Yes, with help for steps
[2020-03-03T17:48:36.436Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: This is a success point when a work item is taken up by a formal WG or other standards body. We should celebrate.
[2020-03-03T17:48:56.907Z]	<chriswinc>	JoeAndrieu: the other one was the DID Explainer
[2020-03-03T17:49:44.305Z]	<ChristopherA>	action: @burn & @JoeAndrieu to close out explainer work item
[2020-03-03T17:49:57.305Z]	<chriswinc>	...the work has move to a different place and a pointer is needed to the new place
[2020-03-03T17:50:51.135Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: Any feedback from the community regarding other open work items?
[2020-03-03T17:51:08.614Z]	<chriswinc>	...inactive items are subject to closure or archive
[2020-03-03T17:51:14.154Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T17:51:17.280Z]	<Orie_>	q+ to discuss
[2020-03-03T17:51:31.034Z]	<Orie_>	^
[2020-03-03T17:51:43.162Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack Orie_
[2020-03-03T17:51:54.934Z]	<chriswinc>	Orie_: been discussion on a DID key issue
[2020-03-03T17:52:05.525Z]	<chriswinc>	...and matrix parameters
[2020-03-03T17:52:37.394Z]	<chriswinc>	...the problem is that DID Docs don't have all the information they need at initialization
[2020-03-03T17:52:42.883Z]	<dmitriz>	https://github.com/digitalbazaar/did-method-key/issues/5
[2020-03-03T17:52:50.767Z]	<chriswinc>	...updates however are expensive in time or cost
[2020-03-03T17:53:23.542Z]	<chriswinc>	...matrix parameters offer to extend original DID doc if they are signed
[2020-03-03T17:53:50.659Z]	<chriswinc>	...would allow you to sign an attribute e.g. service endpoint
[2020-03-03T17:54:21.664Z]	<chriswinc>	...feedback?
[2020-03-03T17:54:22.684Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T17:54:48.129Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: related to a BTCR item
[2020-03-03T17:55:08.354Z]	<chriswinc>	...we are stalled on a non JS-based signing method
[2020-03-03T17:55:35.050Z]	<chriswinc>	...like DID key, begin with a key pair
[2020-03-03T17:56:01.054Z]	<chriswinc>	...put on BTC and until the transaction is confirmed we don't have a DID
[2020-03-03T17:56:05.683Z]	<Orie_>	yes, many methods that rely on ledger anchoring suffer from these registration timing issues.
[2020-03-03T17:56:09.182Z]	<chriswinc>	...need the block ID of transaction
[2020-03-03T17:56:32.262Z]	<chriswinc>	...all you have in the interim is a key
[2020-03-03T17:56:45.868Z]	<chriswinc>	...need to go to extensions to get override
[2020-03-03T17:57:05.504Z]	<chriswinc>	...one key needs to do everything or at least delegation
[2020-03-03T17:57:10.978Z]	<Orie_>	here is mine for example: https://github.com/OR13/self/blob/master/ddo.jsonld
[2020-03-03T17:57:52.314Z]	<chriswinc>	...when DID doc is extended, that document will modify key authority for example
[2020-03-03T17:58:07.514Z]	<chriswinc>	...we don't quite know how to do that
[2020-03-03T17:58:40.800Z]	<dmitriz>	q+
[2020-03-03T17:58:49.839Z]	<chriswinc>	...you might get different DID extensions based who you are and what your rights are
[2020-03-03T17:58:55.377Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q+ to ask about HD for signing and encrypt from same derived path?
[2020-03-03T17:59:21.206Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T17:59:25.267Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	@Orie_ that is an oddly formed DDO
[2020-03-03T17:59:26.365Z]	<chriswinc>	...were hoping to dive into this at RWOT but need a backup plan now
[2020-03-03T17:59:34.717Z]	<ChristopherA>	@dmitriz
[2020-03-03T17:59:41.119Z]	<Orie_>	yes, opportunity for alignment accross methods wrt timing and property issues.
[2020-03-03T17:59:55.927Z]	<chriswinc>	dmitriz: what is being proposed is a way to extend the trust model
[2020-03-03T18:00:06.990Z]	<chriswinc>	...to pass in essentially a JSON patch
[2020-03-03T18:00:25.499Z]	<ChristopherA>	are there an example of json patch mechanism? any urls about this?
[2020-03-03T18:00:28.494Z]	<Orie_>	+1 to dmitriz, it is essentially a method specific signed json patch
[2020-03-03T18:00:34.715Z]	<chriswinc>	...to resolver - please also add or remove
[2020-03-03T18:00:43.423Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+ to discuss initial_state versus current_state
[2020-03-03T18:00:59.682Z]	<chriswinc>	...may resolve issues in many DID methods
[2020-03-03T18:01:39.885Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: BTCR method thought this would reside in the verifiable presentation
[2020-03-03T18:01:50.846Z]	<Orie_>	https://github.com/digitalbazaar/did-method-key/issues/5
[2020-03-03T18:01:52.916Z]	<dmitriz>	https://github.com/digitalbazaar/did-method-key/issues/5
[2020-03-03T18:01:55.414Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-03-03T18:01:56.750Z]	<chriswinc>	dimitriz: good use case, add it to issue #5
[2020-03-03T18:02:01.474Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T18:02:06.375Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack dmitriz
[2020-03-03T18:02:11.643Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack jonathan_holt
[2020-03-03T18:02:29.429Z]	<chriswinc>	jonathan_holt: is the concern derived keys?
[2020-03-03T18:02:37.796Z]	<Orie_>	q+ to comment on encryption
[2020-03-03T18:02:53.362Z]	<dmitriz>	q+ to clarify that encryption is supported (at least in did:key)
[2020-03-03T18:02:58.153Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: option to pass an xpub instead of a key
[2020-03-03T18:03:07.501Z]	<chriswinc>	...or maybe even every time you sign
[2020-03-03T18:03:21.054Z]	<chriswinc>	...may have to prove capability to get DID doc
[2020-03-03T18:03:43.094Z]	<chriswinc>	...could be cryptographic. potentially solves phoning home
[2020-03-03T18:04:01.967Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T18:04:05.822Z]	<ChristopherA>	@JoeAndrieu
[2020-03-03T18:04:16.260Z]	<chriswinc>	...BTCR focused on privacy, security without using selective disclosure
[2020-03-03T18:04:50.586Z]	<chriswinc>	JoeAndrieu: DID doc identifies that there are more parameters that should be checked
[2020-03-03T18:04:59.205Z]	<chriswinc>	...initial state use case.
[2020-03-03T18:05:23.414Z]	<chriswinc>	Sidetree for example has initial state gurantees
[2020-03-03T18:05:43.808Z]	<dmitriz>	q+
[2020-03-03T18:05:44.733Z]	<chriswinc>	...third - augment with JSON patch. This seems to be an anti-pattern
[2020-03-03T18:05:48.828Z]	<dmitriz>	q-
[2020-03-03T18:06:02.275Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-03-03T18:06:05.183Z]	<chriswinc>	...feels broken as it is not deterministic
[2020-03-03T18:06:10.401Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack Orie_
[2020-03-03T18:06:28.674Z]	<chriswinc>	Orie_: agree with the three bucket separation
[2020-03-03T18:06:38.225Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-03-03T18:06:52.365Z]	<chriswinc>	... method itself is responsible for returning the document
[2020-03-03T18:06:52.445Z]	<ChristopherA>	(closing queue)
[2020-03-03T18:07:09.054Z]	<chriswinc>	...up to the method maintainers how to do this
[2020-03-03T18:07:41.850Z]	<chriswinc>	...not a big difference with augmenting doc as it is has the same effect as losing the key
[2020-03-03T18:07:44.190Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack dmitriz
[2020-03-03T18:08:10.062Z]	<chriswinc>	dmitriz: three categories are equivalent
[2020-03-03T18:08:23.394Z]	<chriswinc>	...discussion should continue
[2020-03-03T18:08:29.074Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	multiple versions could be signed...
[2020-03-03T18:09:06.914Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	gotta go. thanks, all.
[2020-03-03T18:09:20.602Z]	<chriswinc>	ChristopherA: Offers to help with DID extensions if you provide URL
[2020-03-03T18:09:27.309Z]	<Orie_>	thanks!
