[2022-07-26T17:31:28.197Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-07-26T17:31:28.198Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-07-26T17:31:28.199Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2022-07-26T17:31:28.199Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-07-26T17:31:28.200Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2022-07-26T17:31:38.396Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2022-07-26T17:31:40.867Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-07-26T17:32:06.861Z]	<nis>	present+
[2022-07-26T17:32:21.982Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-07-26T17:32:26.434Z]	<Vivien>	present+
[2022-07-26T17:33:17.522Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-07-26T17:33:17.522Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2022-07-26T17:33:37.926Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay and then it gives me the option to stop subtitles so I will not click that and it looks like Auto scribe is working as far as I can tell.
[2022-07-26T17:33:48.582Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah I can see.
[2022-07-26T17:34:10.597Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: And okay and what Chris just said just popped up in chat so I guess it's working so far and I guess as long as it continues to work then I'll just be the host for this meeting does anyone volunteer to run the meeting or my stuff with it.
[2022-07-26T17:34:27.426Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: There we can we can top off like last time I can take the second half if you want to but I just my brain is not engaged right now so take it away anus.
[2022-07-26T17:34:43.114Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Agenda: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/AGENDA.md
[2022-07-26T17:34:56.929Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Topic: IP Note, Agenda Review, Scribe Selection
[2022-07-26T17:34:58.298Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This is Tracy interop week.
[2022-07-26T17:35:08.527Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/317
[2022-07-26T17:35:13.311Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Topic: GitHub Issue & PR review
[2022-07-26T17:36:36.629Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: None for me.
[2022-07-26T17:36:49.981Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/318
[2022-07-26T17:37:01.237Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Let me do a quick review.
[2022-07-26T17:37:38.749Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: My understanding from Mike is that there was some confusion on what exactly was the measure of completeness for workflow so this is some documentation regarding regarding that I see there's a to do in there so this is always still in progress but I think this is a good initial start to that and I believe that Ted had some changes that have been.
[2022-07-26T17:37:39.035Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy:  an integrated.
[2022-07-26T17:38:40.260Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/492
[2022-07-26T17:39:43.493Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I miss I have one question for you it looks like there's the addition of the USMC a certification of origin was area removal of a file that had a different name or is that a full-on addition of a new item.
[2022-07-26T17:40:36.896Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah I would I would definitely agree to emerging offline if it is in fact a simple file rename and changing as is done in certification of origin file above it.
[2022-07-26T17:41:13.345Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/494
[2022-07-26T17:42:07.769Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I'm just just to clarify the PGA shipment status list one looks like another file addition is that potential as well.
[2022-07-26T17:42:58.972Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/495
[2022-07-26T17:43:04.880Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Russell half and doll.
[2022-07-26T17:43:29.568Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Check your last name yeah this one's pretty straight forward a bit ago intent to sell was renamed as intend to import there were a few properties that still were holdovers from intent to sell like there was seller and buyer so I switch those two importer/exporter along with some of the language.
[2022-07-26T17:43:50.179Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/496
[2022-07-26T17:44:22.935Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah this is working off some spreadsheets to do with the EDD early detection distribution stuff and invasive species shapefile such like geo coordinates and shapes stuff and it's metadata so this one is it creates it creates a certificate or credential for the.
[2022-07-26T17:44:28.182Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): That links to that references a credential for supporting metadata.
[2022-07-26T17:44:58.496Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah I actually did resolve those little grammar tweaks I just forgot to I mean I pushed a new commit that does resolve those I just forgot to resolve the conversations such fine.
[2022-07-26T17:45:35.957Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah um let's see in the file itself it's titled the title is EDD shapefile I I could change the file names to EDD shapefile.
[2022-07-26T17:46:05.371Z]	<Vivien>	present+
[2022-07-26T17:46:17.434Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/497
[2022-07-26T17:46:37.967Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah this one is similarly nice Mama North American invasive species management association so this is working off yeah I think I linked to the PDF document that goes into detail about a bunch of different.
[2022-07-26T17:47:04.255Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Jules and bunch of different don't know what to call them information sources with fields and turning those into a set of credentials oh there actually is later there's going to be a separate PR integrating these into a single certificate that references a number of these schemas but that's outside of the scope.
[2022-07-26T17:47:18.573Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): And tell Ted's it's hey Ted's changes we're integrated.
[2022-07-26T17:47:38.087Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/498
[2022-07-26T17:49:04.281Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/499
[2022-07-26T17:49:41.733Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/500
[2022-07-26T17:50:34.920Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/501
[2022-07-26T17:50:57.521Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/502
[2022-07-26T17:51:43.647Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/503
[2022-07-26T17:51:58.598Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah this is working directly off of her quest for Mike just to have this certificate detailing claims from a third party.
[2022-07-26T17:52:29.335Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): The only the only tricky bit in this I think as my mood pointed out is that Mike requested that the value of the claim be either a string or an object so I just made a standard value property as well as a value object property that could optionally contain an object instead of the value the string value since its I'm guessing that's.
[2022-07-26T17:52:37.049Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: How are we handling this for something like identifier North America.
[2022-07-26T17:52:54.035Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): How do you say yeah.
[2022-07-26T17:52:54.733Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: This should very much be the same way right it's a single term and it accepts either an object or a string I don't think we should split it up this way anyone know.
[2022-07-26T17:52:58.873Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah isn't there can we use one up here is that.
[2022-07-26T17:53:17.248Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Um yeah I can use one of I looked around and I didn't see any I didn't see any examples of one of being used so I assume was guessing that was less pretty of an approach but I can absolutely switch to a one of.
[2022-07-26T17:53:23.668Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I think one of them would be better than this approach.
[2022-07-26T17:53:33.730Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: But it's that's the only like when I have on this if that's fine then like my approvals my culture.
[2022-07-26T17:53:43.602Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Honestly I think yeah I could just I could just change this and put in a an update to this so no need to merge now.
[2022-07-26T17:54:31.199Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah I'm that's a question I can bring up with Mike but I'm basically just working off of a request that he made to create a credential at the specific example.
[2022-07-26T17:54:34.580Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): So yeah about that.
[2022-07-26T17:54:42.503Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah yeah absolutely.
[2022-07-26T17:54:49.492Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Can we okay can we pause on this PR until we get answers to that because I was thinking that too and I thought I was missing something like yeah so please if you can Mike on this and have him explain that's his point.
[2022-07-26T17:55:03.298Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/504
[2022-07-26T17:55:37.315Z]	<Transcriber>	Vivien: Yes so for this one since events are referencing products which are already like have the product Reese's so what I did in this PR is that I replace the direct in bed of a product object with a hash link which points to the product VC and with the hash part of the link and make sure that the product.
[2022-07-26T17:55:38.289Z]	<Transcriber>	Vivien: They say the same.
[2022-07-26T17:55:41.709Z]	<Transcriber>	Vivien: As the Avicii was issued.
[2022-07-26T17:56:51.948Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: I think this may end up being another one of but in my mind there's no reason why you can't use product is because a product will have five seven ten events and if you're replicating that product info on every event then you're wasting it on the monitor this is more refer to product here today and the reason why you want to Hash link is because if that product changes.
[2022-07-26T17:56:59.340Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Well you don't want that much the train is the point right you know the product to be exactly what you reckon.
[2022-07-26T17:57:49.027Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/505
[2022-07-26T17:58:20.565Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay so this pull request updates the development that MD file which is addressing issue 307 that I track down and assign myself to so the right now the development that MB file is really out of date and doesn't cover the change to Yellow syntax I guess before it was using Json directly and so what this does is this updates it to reflect our current conventions and.
[2022-07-26T17:58:21.050Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute:  as I was editing it and.
[2022-07-26T17:58:53.513Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: There are a few things that stuck out like when you're writing documentation it's like oh we should do it this way and Define conventions so open up stuff and Postman inside the schema holders I moved into common and credentials to separate by type and then we have tags to separate by further categories and Futures we see that JS it does the exact same thing that regenerate does accept.
[2022-07-26T17:58:53.744Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute:  a single one instead of just generating the.
[2022-07-26T17:59:04.653Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: For a set of credentials so I removed the folder relate to create future VCS in favor of just being able to run regenerate that Jess.
[2022-07-26T17:59:16.010Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah so yeah and that that's a pull request 505.
[2022-07-26T17:59:26.548Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: And thanks Ted for the lots of edits and fixes to my horrible programmer spelling.
[2022-07-26T17:59:44.575Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think CI is probably to take another second if there's no no objections I think we can merge this as soon as this you guys is that okay.
[2022-07-26T18:00:53.982Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I I was thinking of a suggestion instead of doing by sorting by the least recently updated what do we want to look at issues with the pending close tag to see if we can close this out first and then switch to least recently updated.
[2022-07-26T18:01:03.835Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I have no objection with that as long as we get to the first 30 off two requirements tickets in Trade Center up.
[2022-07-26T18:01:15.868Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay actually but if those are high if those are higher priority let's let's kind of do it in that order we can do to 40 to 45 to 40 42 43 44.
[2022-07-26T18:01:28.603Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/240
[2022-07-26T18:01:38.014Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Sorry if they're just right in order let's let's 240 has a pending closed let's look at that and let's let's switch to the ones that Chris Chris brought up.
[2022-07-26T18:02:08.083Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I agree I think it's been resolved.
[2022-07-26T18:02:35.875Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: They'll trace the trace and drop is pretty small I think Trace vocab has a bunch of pending close.
[2022-07-26T18:02:43.332Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I mean not traceable cab sorry brain not working.
[2022-07-26T18:02:59.618Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: On Trade Center up on Trace vocab has a lot but I think are we let's let's stick with since we're on tracing drop this week let's take with trace and drop.
[2022-07-26T18:03:08.591Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: You sure it's like.
[2022-07-26T18:03:15.168Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I actually see six of them seven of them you just close and trace it in her up.
[2022-07-26T18:03:26.960Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/labels/pending-close
[2022-07-26T18:03:32.964Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Apending-close
[2022-07-26T18:03:46.581Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay alright let's let's let's do that just just a quick check or worth 30 minutes out so I think we have time to look at Tres vocab pending close and then switch over to the the issues that Chris wants to address.
[2022-07-26T18:03:49.657Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Is that okay.
[2022-07-26T18:03:55.796Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/455
[2022-07-26T18:04:15.273Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: All right so first one regret or issue for 45 this is update traceable presentation example I think this was addressed in or he's poor Quest 458 is this is this does this mean that this has been closed or do we want give Cory a chance to confirm this is can be closed up.
[2022-07-26T18:04:19.214Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Let's ping Oregon and get him to confirm.
[2022-07-26T18:04:32.413Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/384
[2022-07-26T18:04:34.109Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay I think so I can ping them in chat when he gets back from ietf and if he says it can be closed then we can close it 33.
[2022-07-26T18:04:42.050Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Beyond the 384 I think oh this is a dupe of 192 so I think this should be.
[2022-07-26T18:04:46.415Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Preciate for it to close if you have two of the same thing.
[2022-07-26T18:04:56.898Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I mean there's.
[2022-07-26T18:05:29.034Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Maybe there is there's a tagging structure which was added in the credentials so I think that issue can be closed and then industry specific credentials into a folder I think that I think that right now separating types by folder of having common credentials and presentations and then using tags to separate by category and Industry is a better approach to do this but I might have been might have been a little.
[2022-07-26T18:05:29.829Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Trigger Happy in.
[2022-07-26T18:05:33.132Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: A flying leap ending clothes.
[2022-07-26T18:05:36.138Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Tag to this.
[2022-07-26T18:05:56.651Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Let's go ahead and close 384 then.
[2022-07-26T18:06:07.420Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/311
[2022-07-26T18:06:23.723Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Moving on 2311 2311 development that I'm deontology structure for you should we change the yamo example I think this is just outdated and that was completely updated so I think this one can be safely closed.
[2022-07-26T18:06:28.113Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: All right closing.
[2022-07-26T18:06:36.156Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/307
[2022-07-26T18:06:43.712Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Let's just close it so that's good I think by extension 307 which does not have pending clothes currently I just updated.
[2022-07-26T18:06:49.664Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: The development that ND file so I think this can also be closed.
[2022-07-26T18:06:52.108Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Unless we want to.
[2022-07-26T18:06:55.633Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Further changes to that file.
[2022-07-26T18:07:07.783Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Not not I'll just close it all right.
[2022-07-26T18:07:15.589Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/287
[2022-07-26T18:07:16.807Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: So going back up the crystal presentation we have a pending close on 287.
[2022-07-26T18:07:28.827Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: So miss added defending clothes for this I think this is due to lack of Engagement.
[2022-07-26T18:08:16.063Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/275
[2022-07-26T18:08:17.629Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay so we can markets closed and just say reopen if you don't agree and just be a little aggressive on that next one is fixed iri format this one is Penny close.
[2022-07-26T18:08:41.781Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: There's a lot going on here no concrete changes have been suggested and not agree to this is set on pending closed on May 25th I think two months is enough to give people notice to respond to a issue so I'm just going to say closing due to lack of activity.
[2022-07-26T18:08:52.120Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Next one is.
[2022-07-26T18:08:52.854Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/243
[2022-07-26T18:09:06.741Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Remove s sack from generic bill of lading miss it looks like you march this the spending close on February 22.
[2022-07-26T18:09:18.349Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay so does that mean this can be closed.
[2022-07-26T18:09:27.214Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/27
[2022-07-26T18:09:27.413Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Closing issue and last one is u n-- c e fact.
[2022-07-26T18:10:22.886Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: His results so that covered that I think with my main issue with traceability vocab right now is I trade center off as like 20 issues are pretty easy to keep track of traceability has like a th juice that we keep forgetting to come back to and keeps growing so I kind of just recommendation for everyone and anyone like if there's an issue that you see that can be like put on the pending close tag and.
[2022-07-26T18:10:23.193Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute:  bring it up and just meeting.
[2022-07-26T18:10:26.963Z]	<nis>	+1
[2022-07-26T18:10:28.079Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Squash some try to focus more on the important ones.
[2022-07-26T18:10:40.190Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Chris what do you have it did you have any specific issue so you wanted to bring it first for interrupt if we get back to that.
[2022-07-26T18:10:49.050Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah and they just happen to be the first three in order anyway I just want to get some ready for PR tags on those so that we can move forward.
[2022-07-26T18:10:50.037Z]	<nis>	+1
[2022-07-26T18:10:51.581Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay so be 315 314 3:13.
[2022-07-26T18:10:55.579Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Or or what.
[2022-07-26T18:11:00.721Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Exactly 245 243 and 242.
[2022-07-26T18:11:03.032Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay let's do that.
[2022-07-26T18:11:03.867Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/245
[2022-07-26T18:11:17.429Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: The first one would be to 45 this is defined a lot to requirements for a with for presentations proof and right now that currently is it must require a lot to and the scope is presentations.
[2022-07-26T18:11:27.645Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yes and this is I mean I think we've discussed this at length.
[2022-07-26T18:11:49.877Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay I think in this case the justification is this requires this endpoint requires the server to have control over the person's keys and that means that by definition this endpoint requires authentication are we ready to put a ready for PR label on this.
[2022-07-26T18:12:00.109Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: 245 has a very prepared label next one is 244.
[2022-07-26T18:12:02.759Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/244
[2022-07-26T18:12:06.354Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I think the Nexus 243.
[2022-07-26T18:12:09.577Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay alright let's just.
[2022-07-26T18:12:11.682Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/243
[2022-07-26T18:12:40.881Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: The URL enter require for presentations available this current state is presentations available must not require oauth2 and this is by definition because we are using did off and not cool with that this must not have this must not require oauth2 authentication I believe this is.
[2022-07-26T18:12:41.121Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute:  who's ready for pie.
[2022-07-26T18:12:46.057Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Not for me.
[2022-07-26T18:12:56.014Z]	<nis>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/openapi/#post-/presentations/available
[2022-07-26T18:13:03.717Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I don't want to close it until we have the necessary conformance testing in place.
[2022-07-26T18:13:11.143Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah so that's what these PR for are we let's see what's the next 12 44.
[2022-07-26T18:13:16.656Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/242
[2022-07-26T18:13:17.209Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: 242 is next but I do believe 244 requires the same treatment.
[2022-07-26T18:13:36.251Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Let's go ahead and do 242 presentation submissions this is identical to presentations available that by definition this must be unauthenticated to allow for did off to take place are we okay with putting a ready for PR.
[2022-07-26T18:13:47.599Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: And then now we can get back to 244.
[2022-07-26T18:13:47.735Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute:  which is.
[2022-07-26T18:13:49.605Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/244
[2022-07-26T18:13:58.767Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Let's see one.
[2022-07-26T18:14:08.842Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Presentations verify shouldn't this Philip required here be presentations verify I agree I completely.
[2022-07-26T18:14:14.298Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Messed up so I would say yes verify presentations.
[2022-07-26T18:14:17.122Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I will modify that.
[2022-07-26T18:14:38.523Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: And this is a similar justification to verify your credentials that by definition this is consuming several resources and we would want pull up to to be required for authentication I will go ahead and apply the ready for PR label ones.
[2022-07-26T18:14:42.936Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay is there any other.
[2022-07-26T18:14:45.955Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Use so we want to get priority.
[2022-07-26T18:14:52.997Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: For Trace interrupt or do we want to go ahead and go back to the sort by least recently updated.
[2022-07-26T18:14:58.826Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Since those are the only ones that I was concerned about addressing today.
[2022-07-26T18:15:11.243Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay let's go ahead and sort by least comment lease recently updated and I was just going to order and.
[2022-07-26T18:15:20.792Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Do we want to leave time at the end to post the minutes or do we are we okay with.
[2022-07-26T18:15:24.697Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Someone taking care of that offline.
[2022-07-26T18:15:33.665Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I'm happy to take care of that offline I just can't do it until later today.
[2022-07-26T18:15:46.635Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay I can I'll I can give it a shot after the after the meeting and I will post in the svi P group to let you know if that worked.
[2022-07-26T18:15:56.583Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/272
[2022-07-26T18:16:03.777Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay so it looks like Chris this is your issue for to so sorting by least recently updated it's like Chris this is your issue for 272 would you like to provide some context.
[2022-07-26T18:16:32.931Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yes so this is when I added a new report for the conformance testing it's using the same HTML template that we use for the interop testing and this I opened this issue because it seems like it might be a good idea for us to tailor those a little bit so that a have different wording or anything else that we might think of that is appropriate to change and I just want to open this issue to track.
[2022-07-26T18:16:33.266Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy:  Ian's on that.
[2022-07-26T18:16:40.088Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Could I have.
[2022-07-26T18:16:48.736Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: What is that the one that gets loading the URL is that is that the one with the table with the arrows at the bottom.
[2022-07-26T18:16:55.225Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
[2022-07-26T18:17:04.185Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay my one kind of pet peeve about this is the table called with for assertion is too short and that bugs me worth it is.
[2022-07-26T18:17:21.456Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: That is definitely good I would welcome a ticket on that specific issue I'm happy to fix that I agree with you but I don't think that should be added to this issue.
[2022-07-26T18:17:39.687Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay alright so if that's if that's a separate that that's my one main pet peeve about these other than that does anyone just drawing attention is there anything else for the templates that needs addressing.
[2022-07-26T18:17:51.096Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: If other folks don't have any insight into this just yet I'm you know I'm happy to go look at those templates and add some suggestions for discussion.
[2022-07-26T18:18:10.751Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: With you is that the right link for where these templates are what the result of the templates are for the interim reports interoperability was that link I posted correct.
[2022-07-26T18:18:21.214Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah so that's the interoperability report and then if you change interoperability to conformance you get the conformance reports.
[2022-07-26T18:18:31.235Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay and the main the main ask here is forwarding or other things of that nature.
[2022-07-26T18:18:43.361Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yes so for example they both have the exact same title perhaps we'd like to differentiate them somehow maybe differentiate the summary a little bit.
[2022-07-26T18:19:20.619Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay I just added a quick comment with that interrupts report performance report to make it specific for what's being asked and then possible suggestions would be to change title or summary or something of that nature so there's a coming on this it's now not the least recently updated are we okay to move on to the next issue.
[2022-07-26T18:19:25.580Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/87
[2022-07-26T18:20:00.649Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: This one is from or E2 final forbid human-readable exchange ID consider I honestly have no idea what's going on in this consider post exchanges credential refresh definition oil from see a definition steel import from MX so or versus post exchanges you are Nu RI D I'm kind of confused because it doesn't overlap with the.
[2022-07-26T18:20:01.193Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Points that we have to find.
[2022-07-26T18:20:12.987Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: And it looks like the last comment on this is from this soap Miss can you give your opinions on a tease.
[2022-07-26T18:21:33.577Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think the question would be are the questions being asked is what's our opinion in terms of policy is that defined anywhere in the spec.
[2022-07-26T18:23:28.135Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I think I think yeah I think one way to address this would be to say that we only we only Define the endpoint of the suffix for presentations panel presentation submissions or presentations and that anything that comes before that is up to the person implementing the spec so if they want if they would want to say steal or import presentations that that would be within their right to do so.
[2022-07-26T18:23:28.476Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute:  I put.
[2022-07-26T18:23:54.354Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Comment for proposal for resolution of saying we allow for human rights human readable past we do not allow for human readable pass and number one as we agree on this definition we have updated the Specter of like this but as in this just said we might just use the lack of definition to imply that we allow for human readable pass.
[2022-07-26T18:24:20.900Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: So I will I will leave this issue as is but I think we can probably just say add the pending closed label and unless people strongly feel about this I think that this can probably be closed without any action potentially.
[2022-07-26T18:24:30.092Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/199
[2022-07-26T18:24:56.408Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay so next going to be issue 199 need a place to store test results over time this is brought up by Mike somewhere to have a database I believe right now the report is just updating a report every day and does not update the statistics over time is that correct.
[2022-07-26T18:25:12.998Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: That is correct and I think that this is not necessarily a request to update stats over time but more to archive all of these reports every day so that they are available should someone want to look at them.
[2022-07-26T18:25:20.564Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Oh so if you want to go back and say what was it yesterday was it the day before that what was it two weeks ago you would be able to index it by each day.
[2022-07-26T18:25:28.912Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay and so what is the current thinking of this.
[2022-07-26T18:26:01.257Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And the last comment I put in there is I was thinking that now that / reports is no longer where the report lives it there's an additional subfolder depending on which one you look at we could put an index at / reports that enumerates all of the historical reports that are available and we could store them perhaps in / reports / archive and just have them automatically publish their as well as you know in the current.
[2022-07-26T18:26:11.636Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: So what I think that sounds perfectly reasonable to we want to assign a ready for PR labels with for this.
[2022-07-26T18:26:15.632Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I think that makes sense and I'm happy to take this one on.
[2022-07-26T18:26:20.062Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: So I will go ahead and I can assign Chris.
[2022-07-26T18:26:37.802Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay so it has a ready for PR label and Chris has been assigned and let's see what do we want to have one or two will try to do one or two more issues next one is.
[2022-07-26T18:26:41.121Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/100
[2022-07-26T18:26:55.640Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: This is mrs. favorite issue to come up I think the assignee as usually do it yes yeah.
[2022-07-26T18:26:58.957Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It looks like he is conveniently dropped.
[2022-07-26T18:27:03.587Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Oh too bad I think he knew what was coming.
[2022-07-26T18:27:38.111Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Um okay I started playing around with with Postman Collections and I didn't notice that I'm on on Postman when you boot it up it says like hey here's PayPal's Postman collection here's Twitter's Postman collection that there is a place to publish Postman collections so I think this issue is just to publish them there to get some visibility and I think that this might not.
[2022-07-26T18:27:44.260Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Is people make it out to be.
[2022-07-26T18:28:15.656Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Except it's not hard except we've been trying we've been dodging this for the last five months so okay let's let's just say no action has been taken on this issue and make a comment and yeah I think that that might be something to follow up with it.
[2022-07-26T18:28:16.980Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: They get it or something.
[2022-07-26T18:28:22.008Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/39
[2022-07-26T18:28:22.256Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Last one is another fan favorite.
[2022-07-26T18:28:26.753Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Selective disclosure rules.
[2022-07-26T18:28:33.766Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah we just keep saying there's nothing to do here.
[2022-07-26T18:28:53.412Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Just a quick summary on this what what's the pressure on selective credentials selective disclosure and and would that be done with traceability interop or would that be something that would be addressed by traceability of okay.
[2022-07-26T18:29:21.120Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I mean it's.
[2022-07-26T18:29:42.724Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It seems worthwhile to ask Brian or whatever to.
[2022-07-26T18:29:51.252Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Because they're most likely to have the right details to throw in.
[2022-07-26T18:30:08.814Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah now might be a good time to ask him to do that as well because it looks like his latest comment indicated that perhaps there might be some changes coming to ietf that would be relevant.
[2022-07-26T18:30:18.803Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay so I guess we can follow up with brand or whatever that's the screen name right.
[2022-07-26T18:30:28.895Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay so I think that would be the next course of action to take on this issue to ask for that and that brings up.
[2022-07-26T18:30:40.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah let's let's go Miss can you add a comment to Pink.
[2022-07-26T18:30:59.586Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay and we are right at time so I guess thank everyone for coming I will go ahead and turn off recording I will post it minutes on the w3c meeting page and I will see you all next week have a good one.

