Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-01-23/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-01-23/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-01-23.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2024-01-23

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jan&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  GregB, Harrison Tang, Bob Wyman, Rashmi Siravara, Gregory Natran, 
  David I. Lehn, Nis Jespersen , Jeff O / HumanOS, Erica Connell, 
  Kaliya Young, Dmitri Zagidulin, Will, Sharon Leu, Alex H, pauld 
  gs1, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Kimberly 
  Linson, Julien Fraichot, Brandi Delancey, Vanessa , Jing Chao, 
  Mike Xu, Leo, Laura Paglione, Colin Reynolds, Ed Design Lab, Phil 
  (T3)

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: Hello welcome to this week's w3c CG me let me 
  check if the transcriber and the recorder works.
Harrison_Tang: All right I think dust.
Harrison_Tang: This week we're going to talk about the VC test 
  Suite actually I do not see been on right now I've already pinned 
  in so we'll go through the admin stuff first and then have the 
  introductions reintroductions and things like that you know if 
  you know if that Banker than naked and will have open 
  discussions.
Harrison_Tang:  in regards to.
Harrison_Tang: The work items and also kind of you know different 
  threads you know threaten our community all right so first of all 
  just a quick reminder for the code of ethics and professional 
  conduct just want to make sure that we hold a respectful 
  conversation so I think we've been doing that for years actually 
  but just wanted to give a quick shout-out and reminder about the 
  call of tactics.
Harrison_Tang: Right I think we have an issue with the record 
  give me a second.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: Right hopefully that works.
Harrison_Tang: So I was at the code of ethics reminder again just 
  want to make sure that we hold a respectful conversations a quick 
  intellectual property note anyone can participate in these calls 
  however all substantive contributions to any CG work items must 
  be members of the ccg with for IPR agreements signed having any 
  questions or encounter any troubles in regards to creating a w3c 
  account or.
Harrison_Tang:  or the IP our agreement.
Harrison_Tang: These are meetings are being automatically 
  recorded and transcribed we try to publish it within the next few 
  days we used to teach at 2q speakers doing the call as well as to 
  take minutes so you can type in Q + to add yourself to the Q well 
  Q - to remove and you can type in Q question mark to see who is 
  NICU.
Harrison_Tang:  all right.
Harrison_Tang: Let's do the introductions and reintroduction so 
  if you're new to the community where you haven't been active but 
  want to re-engage please feel free to just unmute and speak.
Harrison_Tang: All right well we always have this session like 
  every week so if you feel shy right now and you can always do it 
  next week or the week after.
Harrison_Tang: Alright announcement or reminders any announcement 
  and reminders.
Harrison_Tang: Clear you want to talk about the IW yeah.
Kaliya Young:  I don't we use happening April 18 to 19 and our 
  European event the digital identity I'm conference Europe is 
  scheduled for the third week of June and registration should open 
  for that soon.
Harrison_Tang: All right thank you any other announcements or 
  reminders.
Harrison_Tang: Write any updates to the work item.
Harrison_Tang: Well I think you said that you know in regards to 
  the role map and also clean up the work items do you mind speak 
  to that a little bit yeah.
Harrison_Tang: Yep loud and clear.
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/roadmap/
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/community/work_items.html
Harrison_Tang: Thanks any thoughts for everybody.
Harrison_Tang: Do you have any thoughts well in regards to how we 
  can clean up should we hold a special session on this.
Harrison_Tang: Makes sense thank you.
Harrison_Tang: All right any other comments or questions you are 
  in regards to work items.
Harrison_Tang: Please call yeah.
Kaliya Young:  I was just at a workgroup of stressor r.i.p. this 
  morning and that workgroup had eight task forces there seems to 
  be an incredible amount of work happening there I have a sense 
  there's a lot going on at diff and I'm just curious if there's 
  like.
Kaliya Young:  You know are we going to invite both those 
  organizations to come and present every six months or Recorder 
  about what's going on like how how can see CG as a kind of 
  neutral convening space between all the efforts support greater 
  coherency.
Harrison_Tang: I think we should do you have any suggestions I'll 
  put your work group to invite.
Kaliya Young:  Well I think I mean deaf and Trust arrived here 
  their own entities right in like within them there's a lot going 
  on I mean a starting point is just to have each of them as dot 
  orgs come and share what's going on inside and then.
Kaliya Young:  From there I mean the the group I was listen to 
  this morning was the technology stack working group.
Kaliya Young:  But I feel like it's a lot going on.
Harrison_Tang: No got it yeah wewe actually invited this to to 
  actually present here to provide a overview of their working 
  groups and their projects like about 56 months five months ago 
  and we can definitely invite them back and ask for the specific 
  working group I have and haven't done so we have done more on the 
  ypf side I think we have like three or four sessions with 
  different no idea of open ID Foundation working groups.
Harrison_Tang:  and as for toi.
Harrison_Tang: By pi I don't think we have invited them yet I'll 
  work on that.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah I'll put that into our to-do list and I will 
  try to bring them Bring It On.
Harrison_Tang: Any other comments or suggestions.
Harrison_Tang: So I think there's some logistical issues so I do 
  not see Benjamin on our moon today so today our main agenda is 
  supposed to be the VC test Suite but I haven't been able to reach 
  him this morning so I don't think we will unfortunately have to 
  kind of delay this topic just a quick.
Harrison_Tang: View of what's coming next week we do have the PID 
  DHT decentralised identifiers distributed hash table I think Gabe 
  actually send an email out announcing the launch of the idh DHT 
  about a month ago so we got him to actually talk about that next 
  week and then the week after that we have the modular open source 
  identity platform massive web mesh will talk about their work 
  there it's not open source.
Harrison_Tang:  horse community.
Harrison_Tang: And then the week.
Harrison_Tang: To that we have the Social Web community group and 
  then after that we're going to talk about the PCB stream status 
  list and on the 27th of February we will have a brand talk about 
  the updates to verifiable credentials data model version 2 and 
  then in March will have the Coalition of content provenance and 
  authenticity so Leonard will actually talk about that so that was 
  brought up in last week's meeting.
Harrison_Tang:  and that he's kind of.
Harrison_Tang: To actually say yes and then he will popped on 
  March 5th to talk about their see to PA and now I'll try to work 
  with Benjamin to reschedule the DC Testament conversation.
Harrison_Tang: All right Amy.
Harrison_Tang: Agendas or topic that people want to bring up 
  we'll just kind of open the force and make this into open open 
  discussion and open checkup.
Harrison_Tang: Kimberly do that sorry to call you on but do you 
  have anything that you want ad.
Kimberly Linson:  I know I was just thinking about the that we 
  just we had just just had an open meeting with a good 
  conversation and and I'm very very grateful to will for jumping 
  in and like trying to really clean up.
Kimberly Linson:  You know are what we have in the work group but 
  we're not quite ready to discuss that yet so.
Kimberly Linson:  I'm not sure.
Harrison_Tang: All right is there's no other topics or issues 
  that people want to people have then we'll kind of a journal 
  early and and early this week and will resume next week again 
  apologize for the kind of the logistics don't know what happened 
  there will kind of reschedule reschedule this topic the VC test 
  we I know a lot of people really care about this topic and then 
  they will reschedule.
Harrison_Tang:  it to a later time.
Harrison_Tang: So before we adjourn any last things or last words 
  that people want to bring up.
Harrison_Tang: All right so please do help will and Kimberly and 
  I to cleaned up the work items and also the role map I think will 
  paste the link to those to those things if you have any ideas or 
  suggestions on what species you should work on the work items 
  please just let us know and then please help help us you know you 
  know make Cece.
Harrison_Tang:  EG better.
Harrison_Tang: This concludes that this week's meeting so thanks 
  a lot and I hope you can join us next week thanks.
