Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and russell_h_(mesur.io) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-08-01-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-08-01-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-08-01

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Aug&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and russell_h_(mesur.io)
Present:
  Mahmoud Alkhraishi, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), Russell H (mesur.io), Nis Jespersen , Chris 
  Abernethy, Ted Thibodeau, Orie Steele, Benjamin Collins

<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> VOCAB week, 
  Standing Agenda: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/blob/main/MEETINGS.md
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
russell_h_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Starting with vocab
Nis Jespersen :  Let's look at trace interop reports, mysterious 
  failures
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/conformance/
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Conformance looks fine
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/#:~:text=Provider%20%26%20Test%20Summary
Nis Jespersen :  I can run it locally, figure it out
Ted Thibodeau:  Provider and test summary, transmute and mesur 
  dragging it down
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think last week it was very different. 
  change since we added credential workflow, maybe
Ted Thibodeau:  Still breaking this provider line down by 
  company, not provider, troublesome. want an overall average there
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  There's one at the top. you're lookiing for 
  "credential average is x"
Ted Thibodeau:  So credentials issue, in subtable, 100 100 28. I 
  want to know overall avg.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/582
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Will raise two issues on that
Ted Thibodeau:  And what changed between last week and now
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Anything else before PRs?
Nis Jespersen :  Client scope was added as env var, guessing 
  that's not defined, that could be it?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/843
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Probably. we're passing fail tests but not 
  passing pass tests. I believe I did something on our end to fix, 
  so that's probably what's going on.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/842
Nis Jespersen :  Misc cleanup
Nis Jespersen :  Some odd changes to workflow, but that's from 
  building last week
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/820
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/817
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Transmute, does that affect your steel demo?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/820
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/841
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/842
<nis> Bravo!
Nis Jespersen :  Have had around for a while, just committed 
  orie's changes
Nis Jespersen :  Another workflow thing as side effect
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/843
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/844
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Create PR with grammar changes suggested by 
  ted, cause it has to change elsewhere
Nis Jespersen :  Adding tin to MTR chem compounds
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/845
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  2 Approvals, any problems merging 844 in? 
  merging
Nis Jespersen : +1 On spelling out Oil And Gas
Ted Thibodeau:  Also, this pr uses og, we decided is oilandgas, 
  unsure where
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think it's just PR name
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Modifying PR name. two approvals, any 
  objections to merging 845? merging
Chris Abernethy:  Change that scope thing that broke all our 
  testing. Doc updates.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Orie had change request? and I'd like to add 
  that it's optional
<orie> we should just remove it?
<orie> why spend so much effort to maintain optionality nobody is 
  using
Chris Abernethy:  Suggest wording for that?
Orie Steele:  Quick comment - lot of work done to maintain 
  optional param noones using, remove?
Chris Abernethy:  Have to, otherwise ppl can't participate at all
Orie Steele:  Make supporting themd efault case remove optional 
  details. Other way of saying, anyone getting value out of tests 
  only excluding id?
Chris Abernethy:  Already removed them. that's why this client 
  var exists, now justa ssume we're passing tests and if you need 
  wonky names then specify.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/581
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Awesome. going to add comment please address 
  pr, merge offline. chris ask orie to review again after made 
  changes
Orie Steele:  Just removes deprecated suites not using, pretty 
  straightfwd, refers to media type, could change but better to 
  rfer to that than suite no one's using
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Do we expect to continue jsonwebkey2020, or 
  just jsonwebkey?
Orie Steele:  I'd suggest just jsonwebkey. all applies to did doc 
  not context credential
Orie Steele: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-integrity/pull/137
Orie Steele:  Merge pr as-is, update other things as pr 137 
  lands. incremental improvement seems worth it.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/583
<orie> sry need to drop
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  2 Approvals, all comments resolved, merging 
  in
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/571
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/593
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Any pressing issues?
Benjamin Collins:  Basic schema issue of type str and add format 
  of datetime to make sure it's specific form of datetime for 
  format. using it more consistently across schemas, tho I don't it 
  should be scaled across all issues
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Writing that in as additional action item.
Benjamin Collins:  Assigned myself. I can do a pass.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/594
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Added ready for pr label. anything else on 
  this? great
Nis Jespersen :  We can be more precise than a string, standard 
  being applied. I think this'd be the right way to express the 
  content that is the mill test.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  What's next steps?
Nis Jespersen :  Assign me, let's come back
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So second comment is action item?
Nis Jespersen :  Yes
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Any ip issues if we use iso standards in 
  vocab terms? or is this fine?
Ted Thibodeau:  As long as the things resolve to ppl who haven't 
  bought into iso
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/379
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thank you, next up, max size limit for 
  json-ld vc's
Ted Thibodeau:  Just followed link to presented elongation, wrong 
  link.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Fair. but going to need to go through all of 
  them anyway. will note that.
Ted Thibodeau:  Really problematic. taking one product's 
  arbitrary limitation, smaller than file size limits on any os, 
  saying "this tiny thing is how big any"
Benjamin Collins:  More around time it takes to sign. could even 
  time out on i7 with 32gigs mem. Jsonld the canonical op before 
  signing, there's a practical term
Ted Thibodeau:  Diff argument than "mongo has this limit"
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Look at last two links in orie's comment.
Ted Thibodeau:  Ok, so, this should be doc'd, "there's a 
  practical limit here and this is why"
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Underlying thing, chris, we are moving away 
  from canonicalization anyway
Benjamin Collins:  Practical limit on what can be computed. If 
  quantumn computing let's you do it in half a sec, that's a 
  technical dependency. ANd then chri's point if we move away from 
  canonicalization, it's just hashing the bytes.
Ted Thibodeau:  Also noting, this is a deployment tradeoff. may 
  be that x hours is worthwhile
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Not hard no, "this is guidance plz follow 
  guidance". Someone can still do it
Benjamin Collins:  Part of use case is transactions, if need 
  100's of transactions/min. if have datacenter, 300cpus, 3 
  terabytes mem and you want to spend all day signing something, go 
  ahead
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Any action items?
Ted Thibodeau:  I think this is fine for PR
<chris_abernethy> I have a potential PR for the interop testing 
  we talked about earlier - not 100% sure it will solve things, but 
  it is a step in the right direction: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/585
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/706
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Any volunteers?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/585
Chris Abernethy:  If one more, let's discuss 585, pass scope in 
  env var
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Put if statement on whether var is present.
Nis Jespersen : +1 Mahmoud
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  This does need to go through. I think we 
  have enough approvals, I think we can merge in
