[2023-08-01T17:29:36.205Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2023-08-01T17:29:53.567Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-08-01T17:30:28.889Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-08-01T17:30:43.964Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-08-01T17:32:43.004Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-08-01T17:33:20.447Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	VOCAB week, Standing Agenda: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/blob/main/MEETINGS.md
[2023-08-01T17:33:38.091Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-08-01T17:33:38.091Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-08-01T17:33:39.752Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-08-01T17:33:48.474Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2023-08-01T17:34:48.843Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
[2023-08-01T17:34:53.261Z]	<nis>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
[2023-08-01T17:35:26.851Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: starting with vocab
[2023-08-01T17:35:56.034Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: let's look at trace interop reports, mysterious failures

workflow collection failing
[2023-08-01T17:36:03.004Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/conformance/
[2023-08-01T17:37:13.467Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: conformance looks fine

let's look at interop, figure out what's going on

unsure how much can do on a call, but do need to get on
[2023-08-01T17:37:25.694Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/#:~:text=Provider%20%26%20Test%20Summary
[2023-08-01T17:37:34.323Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: I can run it locally, figure it out
[2023-08-01T17:37:53.628Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ted: provider and test summary, transmute and mesur dragging it down
[2023-08-01T17:38:52.759Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: I think last week it was very different. change since we added credential workflow, maybe
[2023-08-01T17:39:00.095Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-08-01T17:39:26.630Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ted: still breaking this provider line down by company, not provider, troublesome. want an overall average there
[2023-08-01T17:39:42.908Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: there's one at the top. you're lookiing for "credential average is x"
[2023-08-01T17:40:28.539Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ted: so credentials issue, in subtable, 100 100 28. I want to know overall avg.

Also we need to stop talking abt companies, need to talk abt offering. Bigger companies going to have multiple products, multiple definitions
[2023-08-01T17:41:17.269Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/582
[2023-08-01T17:41:20.307Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: will raise two issues on that

1) add a column to provider summary for overall

2) use product offering instead of company names

I agree with both, created
[2023-08-01T17:41:44.089Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ted: and what changed between last week and now
[2023-08-01T17:42:05.791Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-08-01T17:42:16.911Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: anything else before PRs?

great. let's go to PR review, first trace vocab
[2023-08-01T17:42:37.973Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: client scope was added as env var, guessing that's not defined, that could be it?
[2023-08-01T17:44:04.656Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/843
[2023-08-01T17:45:03.652Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: probably. we're passing fail tests but not passing pass tests. I believe I did something on our end to fix, so that's probably what's going on.

I think we merged that last week, or week before, on scopes.

trying to find... can figure it out offline, but think you're right

So probably update README

trace vocab, then. least recently updated. 

russell, misc schema prop cleanup
[2023-08-01T17:46:13.803Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/842
[2023-08-01T17:46:47.543Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Russell: misc cleanup
[2023-08-01T17:47:06.026Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	russell: some odd changes to workflow, but that's from building last week
[2023-08-01T17:47:48.322Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/820
[2023-08-01T17:49:17.434Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
[2023-08-01T17:49:24.281Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/817
[2023-08-01T17:49:33.267Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: transmute, does that affect your steel demo?

moving on

sorting by oldest actually, 817 by nis
[2023-08-01T17:50:16.072Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/820
[2023-08-01T17:50:42.092Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/841
[2023-08-01T17:52:04.101Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/842
[2023-08-01T17:53:10.885Z]	<nis>	Bravo!
[2023-08-01T17:53:25.405Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: have had around for a while, just committed orie's changes

next up,m add credentialstatus to bankaccountCredential. Any problems merging?

Next 841, fixes entry number example missing fields

only issue with address country, should be two letter I think?

we can merge out of band

842 shippingstop/transport
[2023-08-01T17:54:16.990Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	russell: another workflow thing as side effect
[2023-08-01T17:54:38.806Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/843
[2023-08-01T17:54:57.405Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/844
[2023-08-01T17:55:15.623Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: create PR with grammar changes suggested by ted, cause it has to change elsewhere

843 misc property cleanup, also russell, discussed already, merging

844 adding tin, big, nis
[2023-08-01T17:56:05.269Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: adding tin to MTR chem compounds
[2023-08-01T17:56:17.941Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/845
[2023-08-01T17:57:37.729Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: 2 approvals, any problems merging 844 in? merging

leaving oil and gas manifest, 845. modifies some of scheduleDeliveries to be arr rather than single string

ted has catch on spelling in example, orie another comment also valid
[2023-08-01T17:57:57.329Z]	<nis>	+1 on spelling out Oil And Gas
[2023-08-01T17:57:58.218Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ted: also, this pr uses og, we decided is oilandgas, unsure where
[2023-08-01T17:58:05.777Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: I think it's just PR name
[2023-08-01T17:59:07.678Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
[2023-08-01T17:59:40.085Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-08-01T17:59:53.988Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: modifying PR name. two approvals, any objections to merging 845? merging

going to interop PRs, sorting by oldest

chris,  850?
[2023-08-01T18:00:42.346Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: change that scope thing that broke all our testing. Doc updates.

Client scope is optional, reason we have problem is bc none of our tests are passing value for scope. Needs to be secret value or a string
[2023-08-01T18:00:59.234Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: orie had change request? and I'd like to add that it's optional
[2023-08-01T18:01:00.433Z]	<Orie>	we should just remove it?
[2023-08-01T18:01:14.929Z]	<Orie>	why spend so much effort to maintain optionality nobody is using
[2023-08-01T18:01:33.881Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: suggest wording for that?

can change, can merge offline if
[2023-08-01T18:01:54.435Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: quick comment - lot of work done to maintain optional param noones using, remove?
[2023-08-01T18:02:03.945Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: have to, otherwise ppl can't participate at all
[2023-08-01T18:02:35.177Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: make supporting themd efault case remove optional details. Other way of saying, anyone getting value out of tests only excluding id?
[2023-08-01T18:03:05.911Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: already removed them. that's why this client var exists, now justa ssume we're passing tests and if you need wonky names then specify.
[2023-08-01T18:03:34.122Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/581
[2023-08-01T18:03:42.163Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: awesome. going to add comment please address pr, merge offline. chris ask orie to review again after made changes

Next, pr 581, orie?
[2023-08-01T18:04:38.079Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: just removes deprecated suites not using, pretty straightfwd, refers to media type, could change but better to rfer to that than suite no one's using
[2023-08-01T18:04:55.347Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: do we expect to continue jsonwebkey2020, or just jsonwebkey?
[2023-08-01T18:05:12.544Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: I'd suggest just jsonwebkey. all applies to did doc not context credential
[2023-08-01T18:05:18.987Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-integrity/pull/137
[2023-08-01T18:05:45.308Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: merge pr as-is, update other things as pr 137 lands. incremental improvement seems worth it.
[2023-08-01T18:06:02.482Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/583
[2023-08-01T18:06:25.364Z]	<Orie>	sry need to drop
[2023-08-01T18:06:32.266Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: 2 approvals, all comments resolved, merging in

last today, update sort order for PRs in metings.md, opened by ted now, makes it "by oldest" (583)
[2023-08-01T18:07:01.329Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-08-01T18:07:15.978Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/571
[2023-08-01T18:08:12.156Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/593
[2023-08-01T18:08:24.052Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: any pressing issues?

default order then. next up, conflation of idfier use class, 571, assigned to me

basically we need to update terms on idfier, other places, haven't gotten arnd to it but should be addressed

anyone have q's or need context?

next up 593, did string should use datetime. ben?
[2023-08-01T18:10:39.186Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ben: basic schema issue of type str and add format of datetime to make sure it's specific form of datetime for format. using it more consistently across schemas, tho I don't it should be scaled across all issues

since this is applied consistently across all creds, this is quick look across, applies them all at once

specifically in case of validFrom validTil, cases like that

As Ted points out there are different places which will be datetimes
[2023-08-01T18:11:12.781Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: writing that in as additional action item.
[2023-08-01T18:11:24.605Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ben: assigned myself. I can do a pass.
[2023-08-01T18:11:38.574Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/594
[2023-08-01T18:11:46.244Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: added ready for pr label. anything else on this? great

594, metallurgy test vocab
[2023-08-01T18:12:40.744Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: we can be more precise than a string, standard being applied. I think this'd be the right way to express the content that is the mill test.
[2023-08-01T18:12:51.271Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: what's next steps?
[2023-08-01T18:13:08.405Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: assign me, let's come back
[2023-08-01T18:13:20.146Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: so second comment is action item?
[2023-08-01T18:13:21.993Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: yes
[2023-08-01T18:14:03.846Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: any ip issues if we use iso standards in vocab terms? or is this fine?
[2023-08-01T18:14:18.366Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ted: as long as the things resolve to ppl who haven't bought into iso
[2023-08-01T18:14:32.190Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/379
[2023-08-01T18:14:53.097Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: thank you, next up, max size limit for json-ld vc's
[2023-08-01T18:15:19.136Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: just followed link to presented elongation, wrong link.
[2023-08-01T18:16:52.736Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: fair. but going to need to go through all of them anyway. will note that.

back to size limit, 379, basically abt, ifyou want to stoe in mongo there's an upper limit, 16 [60?] mb. orie suggested some.

anyone else?
[2023-08-01T18:17:26.611Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ted: really problematic. taking one product's arbitrary limitation, smaller than file size limits on any os, saying "this tiny thing is how big any"
[2023-08-01T18:18:02.039Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ben: more around time it takes to sign. could even time out on i7 with 32gigs mem. Jsonld the canonical op before signing, there's a practical term
[2023-08-01T18:18:12.483Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Ted: diff argument than "mongo has this limit"
[2023-08-01T18:18:35.003Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: look at last two links in orie's comment.
[2023-08-01T18:18:53.097Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ted: ok, so, this should be doc'd, "there's a practical limit here and this is why"
[2023-08-01T18:20:07.593Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: underlying thing, chris, we are moving away from canonicalization anyway

I'm in favor of pr what ted says, "plz make it as small as possible this vocab makes it smaller than", and then reasons why.

fair enough?
[2023-08-01T18:20:59.566Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ben: practical limit on what can be computed. If quantumn computing let's you do it in half a sec, that's a technical dependency. ANd then chri's point if we move away from canonicalization, it's just hashing the bytes.
[2023-08-01T18:21:19.950Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ted: also noting, this is a deployment tradeoff. may be that x hours is worthwhile
[2023-08-01T18:21:38.207Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: not hard no, "this is guidance plz follow guidance". Someone can still do it
[2023-08-01T18:22:21.132Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ben: part of use case is transactions, if need 100's of transactions/min. if have datacenter, 300cpus, 3 terabytes mem and you want to spend all day signing something, go ahead
[2023-08-01T18:22:59.084Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: any action items?
[2023-08-01T18:23:05.783Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	ted: I think this is fine for PR
[2023-08-01T18:23:28.418Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	I have a potential PR for the interop testing we talked about earlier - not 100% sure it will solve things, but it is a step in the right direction: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/585
[2023-08-01T18:23:40.218Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/706
[2023-08-01T18:23:52.005Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: any volunteers?
[2023-08-01T18:23:56.941Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/585
[2023-08-01T18:25:05.146Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: if one more, let's discuss 585, pass scope in env var

if it breaks things, can work on it today until it doesn't
[2023-08-01T18:25:20.333Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: put if statement on whether var is present.
[2023-08-01T18:25:29.429Z]	<nis>	+1 Mahmoud
[2023-08-01T18:26:11.986Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: this does need to go through. I think we have enough approvals, I think we can merge in

Chris, update us?

alright, I'm happy to upload mins and audio
