[2020-11-17T17:00:12.240Z]  <kimhd> Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Nov/0077.html
[2020-11-17T17:00:30.737Z]  <heathervescent>    present+
[2020-11-17T17:00:36.137Z]  <cel>   present+
[2020-11-17T17:00:44.958Z]  <Kim>   present+
[2020-11-17T17:00:46.636Z]  <Kim>   http://irc.w3.org/?channels=ccg
[2020-11-17T17:00:54.658Z]  <rgrant>    present+
[2020-11-17T17:01:12.730Z]  <Tim_Bouma_(Linux)> present+
[2020-11-17T17:01:19.065Z]  <Munz__Mesur_io_>   present+
[2020-11-17T17:01:36.513Z]  <JoeAndrieu>    present+
[2020-11-17T17:01:49.114Z]  <Orie_> present+
[2020-11-17T17:03:06.520Z]  <wayne> present+
[2020-11-17T17:03:07.929Z]  <manu>  present+
[2020-11-17T17:03:18.847Z]  <Maarten_|_Sphereon>    present+
[2020-11-17T17:03:20.118Z]  <Kim>   q+ to mention something
[2020-11-17T17:03:24.605Z]  <Kim>   ack Kim
[2020-11-17T17:03:42.760Z]  <Maarten_Sphereon>  present+
[2020-11-17T17:03:57.816Z]  <Kim>   https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-11-17T17:04:36.301Z]  <manu>  scribe: rgrant
[2020-11-17T17:04:55.263Z]  <Kim>   Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2020-11-17T17:05:14.314Z]  <TallTed>   q+
[2020-11-17T17:05:24.766Z]  <Kim>   ack TallTed
[2020-11-17T17:05:53.332Z]  <rhiaro>    present+
[2020-11-17T17:06:01.088Z]  <Phil>  Welcome Back!!!
[2020-11-17T17:06:07.215Z]  <rgrant>    TallTed: of OpenLink Software.  just beat cancer (get your checkups).  Glad to be back!
[2020-11-17T17:06:13.502Z]  <Maarten_|_Sphereon>    Welcome back
[2020-11-17T17:06:15.945Z]  <Kim>   ack Detlef_HÃ¼hnlein
[2020-11-17T17:06:43.556Z]  <Kim>   q?
[2020-11-17T17:06:53.678Z]  <rgrant>    Detlef: new to group.  very interested to be joining
[2020-11-17T17:07:32.055Z]  <rgrant>    kimhd: <moves through reintroductions>
[2020-11-17T17:08:14.868Z]  <Kristina>  q+
[2020-11-17T17:08:23.315Z]  <Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>    present+
[2020-11-17T17:08:24.484Z]  <Kim>   ack Kristina
[2020-11-17T17:08:58.383Z]  <rgrant>    kristina: usually not available at night/  working at Microsoft's decentralized identity team.  also with an NGO.
[2020-11-17T17:09:28.281Z]  <Kim>   Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2020-11-17T17:09:29.164Z]  <dmitriz>   present+
[2020-11-17T17:09:32.934Z]  <Kristina>  Appreciate for consideting APAC friendly times! :)
[2020-11-17T17:09:36.381Z]  <rgrant>    kimhd: announcements and reminders
[2020-11-17T17:09:36.545Z]  <Kim>   https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-11-17T17:10:51.905Z]  <kimhd_>    Topic: Progress on Action Items
[2020-11-17T17:10:57.945Z]  <kimhd_>    https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-11-17T17:11:02.964Z]  <rgrant>    kimhd: calling attention to some labeled items
[2020-11-17T17:11:17.074Z]  <kimhd_>    https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/163
[2020-11-17T17:11:47.546Z]  <tayken>    present+
[2020-11-17T17:11:59.217Z]  <rgrant>    Orie_: new work item is repo created a while ago for did-web.  a did method with almost no decentralized privacy and security.  but it is good for linking to roots of trust.
[2020-11-17T17:12:37.550Z]  <rgrant>    ... connected with DNS.  did-web shows you how to do this.  includes test accounts with little stories.  usefuil to impersonate test accounts and evaluate did-web.
[2020-11-17T17:12:57.103Z]  <rgrant>    ... a set of test accounts.  great for memorable DIDs.
[2020-11-17T17:13:33.285Z]  <rgrant>    ... also confirms to did-core spec.  repo includes all you need including the private key material for testing.
[2020-11-17T17:13:50.591Z]  <brent> present+ Brent_Zundel
[2020-11-17T17:13:57.371Z]  <rgrant>    kimhd_: spec looks good and you'll be migrating repo?
[2020-11-17T17:14:17.872Z]  <Kim>   q?
[2020-11-17T17:14:18.545Z]  <rgrant>    Orie_: for this no links will change, can move repo directly to CCG.
[2020-11-17T17:14:28.366Z]  <manu>  +1 for this work item
[2020-11-17T17:14:31.673Z]  <rgrant>    kimhd_: notes Orie_ will move repo.
[2020-11-17T17:14:50.988Z]  <rgrant>    action: Orie will move repo
[2020-11-17T17:14:58.001Z]  <Kim>   https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/161
[2020-11-17T17:15:06.528Z]  <JeffO-StL> present+
[2020-11-17T17:15:19.704Z]  <Moses> present+
[2020-11-17T17:15:19.866Z]  <rgrant>    kimhd_: calling on heathervescent
[2020-11-17T17:15:42.764Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: this came up in previous meetings.  idea is to develop "101 group materials"
[2020-11-17T17:16:08.812Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: processes for new participants, to teach how we do things and how to work on work items.
[2020-11-17T17:16:08.924Z]  <Kim>   Action: Work Item proposal in #163 is approved
[2020-11-17T17:16:18.323Z]  <kimhd_>    q?
[2020-11-17T17:16:21.072Z]  <Orie_> q+
[2020-11-17T17:16:23.196Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: also a prerequisite for increasing diversity and inclusion.
[2020-11-17T17:16:30.124Z]  <Kim>   ack Orie_
[2020-11-17T17:17:06.280Z]  <rgrant>    Orie_: very supportive of formal process that removes uncertainty around new work items.  good to have rational and clear goals.  we already have a boilerplate for new work items.
[2020-11-17T17:17:13.612Z]  <heathervescent>    q+
[2020-11-17T17:17:41.138Z]  <rgrant>    Orie_: that's one proposal for how to improve the process.  (joke:) to increase quality, reject the first proposal.
[2020-11-17T17:17:44.360Z]  <Kim>   ack heathervescent
[2020-11-17T17:18:00.144Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: was comment on addition work item requirements?
[2020-11-17T17:18:06.346Z]  <rgrant>    Orie_: yes,
[2020-11-17T17:18:36.041Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: yes, the change was jsut proposed at last weeks meeting, thus this discussion.  not expecting great early compliance.
[2020-11-17T17:18:54.251Z]  <rgrant>    Orie_: pressty used to rigor on pull requests.  good for personal growth.
[2020-11-17T17:19:14.267Z]  <rgrant>    Orie_: recommendation was to sugget that work item boilerplate was good place to add this.
[2020-11-17T17:19:50.417Z]  <Kim>   q?
[2020-11-17T17:19:50.604Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: feeling from chairs was that it wasn't ready to go there.  if Orie_ adds, then heathervescent  happy to supoort.
[2020-11-17T17:19:55.784Z]  <rgrant>    Orie_: yays
[2020-11-17T17:20:32.768Z]  <kimhd_>    https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/162
[2020-11-17T17:20:38.291Z]  <rgrant>    kimhd_: on to CCG feedback survey.
[2020-11-17T17:21:44.802Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: desire for a survey... as chairs were discussing future surveys... jitsi versus zoom.  this could be a work item
[2020-11-17T17:22:09.053Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: went to test the work item template
[2020-11-17T17:22:32.408Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: we don't have any surveys that we want to get feedback on at this point.
[2020-11-17T17:23:03.525Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: jitsi/zoom was important thing.  there are opportunities for more surveys for feedback in the future.  we could do a 2020 year in review survey.
[2020-11-17T17:23:06.038Z]  <kimhd_>    q?
[2020-11-17T17:23:17.789Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: from a strategic and a tactical perspective
[2020-11-17T17:23:43.119Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: this is another thing that is benefit to the comminuty but not about developing technology.
[2020-11-17T17:24:22.463Z]  <rgrant>    wayne: would love to start the APAC calls with whatever wins
[2020-11-17T17:24:29.685Z]  <heathervescent>    q+
[2020-11-17T17:24:53.784Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: this is the kind of work item that a new participant can colead.
[2020-11-17T17:25:24.065Z]  <rgrant>    heathervescent: happy to lead, advise, or peer-lead.  so that others can get experience creating and working on a work item.
[2020-11-17T17:25:37.741Z]  <Kim>   https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/162
[2020-11-17T17:25:45.367Z]  <rgrant>    kimhd_: keep that in mind, folks.  esaiest thing to do is add yourself to the issue, or reach out to us directly.
[2020-11-17T17:25:49.037Z]  <Kim>   q?
[2020-11-17T17:25:52.669Z]  <heathervescent>    q-
[2020-11-17T17:25:53.735Z]  <Kim>   ack heathervescent
[2020-11-17T17:26:11.033Z]  <Munz__Mesur_io_>   q+ npmjs approval https://github.com/w3c-ccg/universal-wallet-interop-spec/issues/45
[2020-11-17T17:26:20.555Z]  <rgrant>    kimhd_: main event is Tim
[2020-11-17T17:26:30.911Z]  <kimhd_>    ack Munz__Mesur_io_
[2020-11-17T17:27:02.916Z]  <kimhd_>    Action: CCG Feedback Survey Approved
[2020-11-17T17:27:14.565Z]  <wayne> q+
[2020-11-17T17:27:22.964Z]  <rgrant>    Munz: something brought up around gcreating a namespace for npm-js for W3C.  looking for some approval from the chairs to do that.  we're happy to do it but the namespace doesn't exist yet.
[2020-11-17T17:28:00.345Z]  <rgrant>    kimhd_: we might need to move that to the community repo so that the chairs can pick that up.  we can create an appropriate account in order to publish it.
[2020-11-17T17:28:02.555Z]  <Orie_> q+
[2020-11-17T17:28:20.297Z]  <Kim>   ack wayne
[2020-11-17T17:28:40.491Z]  <rgrant>    scribe advertising moment: feel free to correct your own words after speaking.  the scribe is but one voice in text!
[2020-11-17T17:28:49.172Z]  <Kim>   ack Orie_
[2020-11-17T17:29:07.872Z]  <kimhd_>    q?
[2020-11-17T17:29:14.566Z]  <rgrant>    wayne: good to make this easier
[2020-11-17T17:29:33.161Z]  <rgrant>    Orie_: you are responsible for security.  CCG will be taking this on if managing an npm namespace
[2020-11-17T17:30:02.084Z]  <kimhd_>    Topic: Tim Bouma presents the User-Centric Verifiable Digital Credentials   Challenge
[2020-11-17T17:30:26.898Z]  <rgrant>    Tim: has slides.
[2020-11-17T17:31:39.581Z]  <rgrant>    Tim: quick introduction.  senior analyst.  US equiv is OMB.  some Canadian responsibilities unlike OMG include GSA and administrative issues.
[2020-11-17T17:32:05.508Z]  <rgrant>    ... large scale projects as well as provinces and interaction with other countries.
[2020-11-17T17:32:11.954Z]  <wayne> wayne: we need to figure out security & governance of an npm namespace for w3c-ccg
[2020-11-17T17:32:30.374Z]  <rgrant>    ... sometimes "fuge state" is between teaching politicians and developing the tech.
[2020-11-17T17:32:49.127Z]  <rgrant>    "fugue state" probably.  no ispell :(
[2020-11-17T17:33:23.176Z]  <rgrant>    Tim: great work at a tech level pays off better in a larger strategy.
[2020-11-17T17:35:07.315Z]  <rgrant>    Tim: single-sign on stuff on slide 1
[2020-11-17T17:36:01.499Z]  <rgrant>    ...  starting to ask provinces to work on self-sovereign identity.  Alberta and BC onboarderd
[2020-11-17T17:36:14.644Z]  <rgrant>    ... can use these IDs in he federal system,
[2020-11-17T17:36:34.254Z]  <rgrant>    ... on the bottom of slide1 is some legacy identifiers
[2020-11-17T17:36:51.731Z]  <rgrant>    ... positioning ourselves to accept digital credentials issued by identity wallets.
[2020-11-17T17:37:08.035Z]  <rgrant>    ... have SAML connect, working on these new pathways
[2020-11-17T17:37:31.573Z]  <rgrant>    ... summer involved workshops with federal and Bank of Canada. regariding CBDC
[2020-11-17T17:38:24.693Z]  <rgrant>    ... got the blockchain in there (and understand there are other options for this tech), but image is designed to convey different rails
[2020-11-17T17:38:50.191Z]  <rgrant>    ... closely following W3C-CCG, DHS, Anil.  Tracking stuff to understand and build.
[2020-11-17T17:39:07.769Z]  <rgrant>    ... or rely on operators to operate on our behalf.
[2020-11-17T17:39:40.317Z]  <rgrant>    ... that was genesis of this challenge: USer-Central Verifiable Digital Credential Challenge.
[2020-11-17T17:40:16.001Z]  <rgrant>    ... six vendors to develop proof of concept for them and for government to understand implementation and interoperability issues.
[2020-11-17T17:40:36.807Z]  <rgrant>    ... similar approach to SVIP
[2020-11-17T17:41:18.000Z]  <rgrant>    ... innovation challenges have typically been separate challenges, but this was done as cohort.  secret sauce can be kept via contracts, but what is exposed will be open.
[2020-11-17T17:41:38.945Z]  <rgrant>    ... stimulate small business, and take advantage of innovative solutions.
[2020-11-17T17:41:48.947Z]  <rgrant>    ... get agencies to think about this now.
[2020-11-17T17:42:01.167Z]  <rgrant>    ... influence private sector if marketplace missed anything.
[2020-11-17T17:42:14.030Z]  <Moses> Tim, can you share a contact email? Thanks!
[2020-11-17T17:42:45.628Z]  <rgrant>    ... elements of GSA, German TBS, PSBC, and ISED
[2020-11-17T17:43:10.308Z]  <rgrant>    .. problem statement: (using fewer "trigger words")
[2020-11-17T17:43:35.495Z]  <rgrant>    ... note ther is no current capacity to digitally verify in a standards-based way
[2020-11-17T17:44:07.185Z]  <rgrant>    f... 6 vendors: 500 employees and under, but well established.
[2020-11-17T17:44:51.921Z]  <kimhd_>    q?
[2020-11-17T17:44:53.063Z]  <rgrant>    ... one vendor doing security clearance, another cannabis, another banking, another trade licenses, another verification of employment, another birth certificates.  (!!)
[2020-11-17T17:45:09.286Z]  <rgrant>    ... moshed them together.  key requirement is interoperability.
[2020-11-17T17:45:30.310Z]  <rgrant>    ... (reread mandatory outcomes)
[2020-11-17T17:46:00.275Z]  <rgrant>    ... as a central agency, we issue policy, guidance, and do assessments.  carrots and sticks.
[2020-11-17T17:46:45.628Z]  <rgrant>    ... digital ecosystem slide: tech is "darn hard to communicate"
[2020-11-17T17:47:34.434Z]  <rgrant>    ... program owner (for certificates or licenses) need to learn using a simple way of describing it.  Digital Ecosystem slide tries to brings these things together for these audiences.
[2020-11-17T17:47:56.411Z]  <rgrant>    ... JoeAndrieu's "sky is blue" claim is fun.
[2020-11-17T17:48:05.425Z]  <rgrant>    ... split out notion of holder and controller.
[2020-11-17T17:48:25.984Z]  <rgrant>    ... so consider this diagram.
[2020-11-17T17:48:53.260Z]  <rgrant>    ... Pan-Canadian Trust Framework: is heavy-lifting policy stuff.
[2020-11-17T17:49:18.339Z]  <rgrant>    ... fancy words for policy framework
[2020-11-17T17:50:06.558Z]  <rgrant>    ... on working group for trade and law - they're working on trust frameworks.  Tim's team got them a bit past their earlier foundational start
[2020-11-17T17:50:34.618Z]  <manu>  q+ to ask about how the Canadian cohort will interact w/ CCG and SVIP cohort
[2020-11-17T17:50:50.766Z]  <rgrant>    ... big insterest in CCG is standards and community, and test suites.  like state-of-the-art occurring in the open.  totally sensitive to lock-in WRT standards.
[2020-11-17T17:50:58.951Z]  <rgrant>    ... work in progress: a spreadsheet
[2020-11-17T17:51:26.570Z]  <rgrant>    ... not public yet, but will be soon.  what references are normative.  what are requirements.
[2020-11-17T17:51:47.497Z]  <rgrant>    ... parsed SVIP requirements and using those
[2020-11-17T17:52:20.074Z]  <rgrant>    ... (this is for UCVDCC test suite requirements)
[2020-11-17T17:52:58.267Z]  <rgrant>    ... are signed-PDFs mandary?  not per-se.  80+ references in the space.
[2020-11-17T17:53:22.046Z]  <rgrant>    ... making sense of a very busy space and offering advice to policymakers.
[2020-11-17T17:53:35.336Z]  <Kim>   q?
[2020-11-17T17:53:49.791Z]  <Kim>   ack agropper
[2020-11-17T17:53:50.476Z]  <rgrant>    kimhd_: follow Tim on twitter.  (scribe asks for twitter handle )
[2020-11-17T17:54:11.996Z]  <kimhd> trbouma
[2020-11-17T17:54:25.351Z]  <rgrant>    agropper: how do you deal with SSO phone-home.  how are you going to handle non-governmental services, and how to handle consent?
[2020-11-17T17:54:42.436Z]  <rgrant>    ... and if time, what is the witness role: looks like notary
[2020-11-17T17:55:53.287Z]  <rgrant>    Tim: regarding phone-home (limited to SSI question) briding SAML, openid-connect.  they do phone home: just the way they're designed.  we can see did-<something> where another phone can be an identity provider.
[2020-11-17T17:56:15.011Z]  <Kim>   did siop
[2020-11-17T17:56:23.586Z]  <rgrant>    ... how would you be able to do this in a disconnected framework: consideringthis.
[2020-11-17T17:56:49.883Z]  <rgrant>    ... regarding NGO: stil trying to figure out how to integrate these other parties
[2020-11-17T17:57:17.628Z]  <Kim>   q?
[2020-11-17T17:57:17.743Z]  <Phil>  @Kim - are you suggestiong did siop is an option (interim perhaps) to the phone home concern?
[2020-11-17T17:57:28.672Z]  <rgrant>    ... regarding consent: this part is least developed part.  new bill coming out at 14:00 for updated privacy and personal data protection act.
[2020-11-17T17:57:45.772Z]  <rgrant>    ... lots of work there with privacy comissioner, like a GDPR thing.
[2020-11-17T17:58:32.996Z]  <rgrant>    ... regarding witness: there's a generic concept there from thousnds of years ago.  we're spending energy to get the concepts right so that policy can address things cleanly.  some similarity to SegWit.
[2020-11-17T17:58:45.022Z]  <rgrant>    ... some modelling of organizations as compound entities.
[2020-11-17T17:58:53.640Z]  <Kim>   ack manu
[2020-11-17T17:58:55.889Z]  <rgrant>    ... aware of these issues, no short ianswers yet.
[2020-11-17T17:59:31.302Z]  <rgrant>    manu: thanks, winderful stuff.  how will CAnadian cohort interact with CCG as the months go on?  same test suites?  what is interop plan?
[2020-11-17T17:59:44.830Z]  <rgrant>    Tim: need to work with key partner agencies.  TBD.
[2020-11-17T18:00:07.725Z]  <rgrant>    ... also adding driver's licenses and passports.  want to interop well.
[2020-11-17T18:00:14.856Z]  <rgrant>    kimhd_: thanks everyone!
[2020-11-17T18:00:22.879Z]  <cel>   thanks all
