[2022-04-19T20:00:06.215Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2022-04-19T20:00:45.917Z]	<manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Apr/0097.html
[2022-04-19T20:01:02.746Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2022-04-19T20:01:31.879Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2022-04-19T20:02:27.040Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2022-04-19T20:02:31.235Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2022-04-19T20:03:25.804Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2022-04-19T20:04:13.152Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-04-19T20:04:13.152Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: vcapi
[2022-04-19T20:04:33.391Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Right welcome everyone to the April 19th 2022 VC API call our agenda.
[2022-04-19T20:04:35.981Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Apr/0097.html
[2022-04-19T20:05:09.455Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: On the agenda today we've got our standard agenda review introductions relevant Community updates and then basically issue processing so questions like should URL options be terms or absolute URLs should we support status list 2021 API discoverability Scopes in r&r's in OAS 30 linting see ICD and then any other business.
[2022-04-19T20:05:09.793Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  so that's what's on the agenda for.
[2022-04-19T20:05:17.143Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Are there any updates or changes to the agenda anything else folks would like to cover today.
[2022-04-19T20:05:20.169Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	Quick update from the use cases team: We made progress with our conversion script to get the sequence diagrams to mermaid format but have some bugs we are working through. Will be pushing that forward in the next week.
[2022-04-19T20:05:28.147Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Eric if you want to localize that.
[2022-04-19T20:05:36.900Z]	<manu>	Topic: Announcements and Community Updates
[2022-04-19T20:05:46.623Z]	<Transcriber>	Eric_Schuh: Sure just the mermaids going to be at least another week Joe and I were just working through some bugs with the visual Paradigm to mermaid export tool that we're making so looking to just push that forward in the next week and hopefully get to mermaid sooner rather than later.
[2022-04-19T20:05:47.587Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2022-04-19T20:05:49.729Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay awesome go ahead Joe.
[2022-04-19T20:06:13.064Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I'm here on a different topic I raise an issue in the repo about labeling these endpoints by their components i-it's were a poor the issuer service there are n points that will be on some and not on the others and if we don't distinguish that it's going to be hard for us to understand what these systems are really good.
[2022-04-19T20:06:24.714Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay that sounds like a really important thing for us to track in an issue do we have one for that yet Joe okay okay.
[2022-04-19T20:06:25.600Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah yeah I created that issue this is just drawing your attention I could go find it and put it in chat.
[2022-04-19T20:06:33.021Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Be good yeah and you know plus 12 that agree with the concept there go ahead Dave.
[2022-04-19T20:06:48.181Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I think that's a good idea too I think we're also going to want to descend big you ate with app means I think it's I don't want to take up too much call time on that but that's something we need to do I think.
[2022-04-19T20:06:57.192Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/285
[2022-04-19T20:07:15.821Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay okay I mean we could potentially talk about that today I forgot to also note that we've got some pull requests outstanding that we should probably well I guess we don't really need to take a look at today well let's go ahead and take a look at them as well let me go ahead and also point out a couple of other kind of announcement type things.
[2022-04-19T20:07:20.400Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	(That's the component identification issue)
[2022-04-19T20:07:25.170Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Let me find the link here Paul is I should have this handy before.
[2022-04-19T20:07:32.779Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Here we go let me go ahead and share my screen.
[2022-04-19T20:08:02.852Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So here are a number of test Suites that we went ahead and actually Jim going to meet you because I'm getting some air noise from you here we go there's some VC API test stuff that we moved over to the ccg let me actually find the.
[2022-04-19T20:08:07.763Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2022-04-19T20:08:29.566Z]	<Andy_Miller>	present+
[2022-04-19T20:08:33.881Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Where is the where the team's give me a second okay here teams I created an implementer team for the ccg and the implementers I just added people that I knew that were implementing and if I missed you and I should have put you in here please let me know the implementers are basically people that have access to the test Suites and Repose so we move these five test Suite.
[2022-04-19T20:08:41.397Z]	<dmitriz_>	@manu - I'd like to be added to the implementer list
[2022-04-19T20:09:06.076Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Over we haven't announced it yet we're waiting on one last push to the Edwards curve crypto sweet test Suites before announcing things so right now it's the issuer this is just like super high like the the simplest issuer API implementation the simplest verifier implementation we have a repo now for all the implementation.
[2022-04-19T20:09:32.877Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Talk about that at a future call and then there's this data Integrity test Suite assertion library that we're going to reuse in a bunch of the crypto sweets but this is just a heads up that we moved all of these things over to ccg after Consulting with the chairs and there were cool with it Dimitri I think I saw you as wanting to be added here.
[2022-04-19T20:09:38.816Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Let me go ahead and add you is there anyone else that wants to be added while we're here.
[2022-04-19T20:09:44.641Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So these are the people I added.
[2022-04-19T20:09:51.919Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Anyone else people can think of that should be on here.
[2022-04-19T20:10:29.430Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay there's no real bar tipping added here other than you are actively working on implementations and you need access you know to the test Suites to be able to put in PRS and manage issues and you know that kind of stuff so if you know of someone that is an implementer that should be on this list please let us know so that we can add them we are also trying to assign repositories just these two start and will.
[2022-04-19T20:10:29.740Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  you know as new.
[2022-04-19T20:10:33.427Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: What stories are added will add people there.
[2022-04-19T20:11:01.965Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: I'm sorry this is Andy from IMS and I know that nobody has started yet on the Opie and CLR implementations but I think they're going to within weeks or and so if if they do and I want to point them toward over here would I who when you say just let us know who would who would I where would I point them.
[2022-04-19T20:11:33.846Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Any of the chairs or me just you know on the mailing list if they say hey I'm an implementer and I'd like to be added that's all it takes and will someone all in all we need to know from them is their GitHub handle in that kind of stuff Andy of note specifically for IMS Global this crypto Suite here implements the Edwards curve stuff that you guys were asking for in your issue tracker so they'll be a you know.
[2022-04-19T20:11:34.218Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  what we hope to be a good solid tests.
[2022-04-19T20:11:39.424Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: That sounds great thank you so much.
[2022-04-19T20:12:06.539Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: For that okay no problem the I guess the other thing to point out in D is that if they you know the this is supposed to be an inclusive set of modular test Suites and so if there are 0 B CL are like VC test credentials or something of that nature maybe we should chat with IMS Global or just have a community chat.
[2022-04-19T20:12:06.835Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  about how to enable that.
[2022-04-19T20:12:40.693Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Certainly in kind of the design of these test Suites they're all supposed to kind of their independent test Suite so they only test a small part of the ecosystem but one of those test Suites could be you know 0 be expressed as a verifiable credential or no bi 30u no verifiable credential thing or CL are expressed as a verifiable credential as its own test Suite itself and then you could Point like a bunch of the implementers at that test suite and see how many of them pass.
[2022-04-19T20:12:41.161Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  like that's the that's what we're shooting for here is to get.
[2022-04-19T20:12:55.415Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: For you to throw a bunch of implementers and what you're doing you know at IMs Global and then getting a getting a immediate feedback on how many of them are passing and how many of them are not.
[2022-04-19T20:13:02.232Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: That's a brilliant idea I think well I'll try and push that through.
[2022-04-19T20:13:14.672Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay alright okay that's that heads up anything else from kind of an announcements Community announcements perspective that we should cover.
[2022-04-19T20:13:23.147Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Pull Requests - mermaid.js diagrams
[2022-04-19T20:13:23.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay moving over real quick pull requests.
[2022-04-19T20:13:29.231Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pulls
[2022-04-19T20:13:36.040Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: See we have the following pull requests outstanding let me go ahead and share my window again.
[2022-04-19T20:13:42.667Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's really so let's see his mic here today Mike Farley.
[2022-04-19T20:14:13.655Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Seeing him so we're kind of blocked on this PR we're waiting for Mike to respond to some of the commenters this PR is new as of this weekend it adds mermaid diagram support so we used to have a actually I can show the image here probably in the current API spec do that.
[2022-04-19T20:14:45.234Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So we had this diagram here for an exchange example showing a typical interaction between a holder app like a digital wallet and a verifier app and kind of the back and forth that could be done using the VC API Exchange in points the issue with this is of course like this is a static image and it's not accessible from an accessibility you know standpoint.
[2022-04-19T20:15:02.339Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2022-04-19T20:15:17.992Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So people with sight challenges wouldn't be able to extract the text and all that kind of stuff right and there was a suggestion that we kind of switch over to using mermaid we have done that in this PR in this is what the diagram looks like right now it's the the displays a little buggy because of some Respec issues.
[2022-04-19T20:15:18.331Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  but I think I know what.
[2022-04-19T20:15:43.836Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	yep, as soon as we get our exporter working I will be giving this a try
[2022-04-19T20:15:50.737Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You can put an effects in the future to the renderer and the expectation is Eric Joe you'd be using the same feature in the use cases document if you had any relationship diagrams or flow diagrams or Swim Lane diagrams like this you can use mermaid for all of that and it's and it's a pretty simple thing so let me try and find like this is this is that sequence diagram right here this is.
[2022-04-19T20:15:51.044Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  what it looks like when you.
[2022-04-19T20:15:59.288Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It up as a mermaid diagram you use mermaid markup and then it transforms it into that image Joe you're on the queue.
[2022-04-19T20:16:05.106Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You might be double needed.
[2022-04-19T20:16:27.195Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I was nice is the ability for edits in the pr to modify the diagram without going to an editor like iterating on the diagram itself is always a pain in the butt but here you can just comment on a single line and change the name or change the syntax of one of these messages it really makes collaboration much easier.
[2022-04-19T20:16:31.969Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So I love this I'm glad that you have it thanks for that work.
[2022-04-19T20:17:02.295Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So you can basically do what I'm doing right now and you can change the diagram by just editing that text okay so hopefully that'll be useful to folks still some bugs that need to be worked out but I think we have a handle on that so I think that's going to be merged unless there are any objections you know in the next couple of days and that's the only PR we have any comments concerns about the pr before we.
[2022-04-19T20:17:19.849Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right moving on two issues.
[2022-04-19T20:17:27.352Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Sorry I lost a lost a window.
[2022-04-19T20:17:31.842Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right so let's do.
[2022-04-19T20:17:33.037Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Should URL options be terms or absolute URLs?
[2022-04-19T20:17:39.391Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: URL options topic first one up is 198.
[2022-04-19T20:17:39.506Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/198
[2022-04-19T20:18:10.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And let me go ahead and open that issue here my screen again okay so there was a issue raised about whether or not you're a options should be terms or absolute URL so I think we tried very hard not to infect the API with json-ld and so today eight all the.
[2022-04-19T20:18:36.177Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That we have the outermost structures into the API or Json structures there's no assumption that they're json-ld anything but then we started using a bunch of json-ld terms like this Edward signature term and the assertion method term and you know verification method and things of that nature and so the very good question of.
[2022-04-19T20:18:36.461Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  you know what.
[2022-04-19T20:19:00.701Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: What are we doing here should we be using fully qualified URLs should we be using short json-ld terms if we use the json-ld terms should we include a context or not code it you had mentioned a couple of things in here do you want to vocalize some of that on the call.
[2022-04-19T20:19:02.409Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2022-04-19T20:19:29.394Z]	<Transcriber>	Kayode_Ezike: Oh yeah this was quite some time ago looking at it now so so basically so the first comment I made at it I'd have to probably let's review this again but I think what I was saying for the first one is just like the option having the option to make that property optional so that if it's included in the terms we can yeah.
[2022-04-19T20:19:30.204Z]	<Transcriber>	Kayode_Ezike: Have to just give you this again but.
[2022-04-19T20:19:30.300Z]	<Transcriber>	Kayode_Ezike: Basically I think.
[2022-04-19T20:19:53.442Z]	<Transcriber>	Kayode_Ezike: Idea was kind of similar to along wonder what we were saying about like trying not to enforce enforce the the json-ld sort of verbiage in there and making it more accessible to you and you know industry standard apis and so I think that's effectively what I was getting at there.
[2022-04-19T20:19:59.017Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay thanks Dave Europe.
[2022-04-19T20:20:28.613Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah so one of the purposes for using json-ld is to establish a context that you're working in and data and this API already has such a context we already know that it is a VC API were working within the that context and we're going to we're using either VC jots or data Integrity sweets and so the context is already been established in those are the only things that are supported so.
[2022-04-19T20:20:28.973Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  so given that.
[2022-04-19T20:20:34.827Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I think we can just work within that context so we don't need to.
[2022-04-19T20:20:40.284Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Do fully qualified URLs for terms and things like that.
[2022-04-19T20:21:06.429Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Right any other comments on this topic so what then what's the suggestion we just keep using terms like we're we've always been using or or we use fully qualified URLs or something else.
[2022-04-19T20:21:25.337Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I think the only reason to use fully qualified URLs as if we had a use case for bringing another vocabulary terms into this API and I don't think that we have that so we have we have a clearly established context and we don't have any use cases for bringing anything into this so I don't see any reason to adopt that complexity.
[2022-04-19T20:21:35.131Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So go ahead Joe.
[2022-04-19T20:21:40.001Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I like what David saying although I think.
[2022-04-19T20:21:51.089Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: The point of extensibility is to allow people to innovate faster than the standards process can do so.
[2022-04-19T20:22:09.203Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Is is there an option that the terms defined in this PC API specifications are not fully qualified but that someone can use a fully qualified URL for Innovation to add a new type of term.
[2022-04-19T20:22:13.928Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Other words can we get the best of both worlds.
[2022-04-19T20:22:44.817Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yes I think that just falls under General extensibility to the API in if we depending on how we say that extensibility happens if we're ignoring unknown Jason terms or whatever then that gives people that the space to do that in might be that some of these apis are more lockdown than that but someone running an experiment could open their apis up to allow additional options in whatever ecosystem they're running they're.
[2022-04-19T20:22:45.375Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So I think there still.
[2022-04-19T20:22:57.119Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: And I'm not sure what we want to say or what we feel like we need to say about enabling that.
[2022-04-19T20:23:30.589Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So what if we say exactly what you just said Longley which is any keywords any terms used in the VC API that are not defined in the VC API are ignored unless the implementation understands what that term means that creates a situation where we can have conflicts.
[2022-04-19T20:23:35.038Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: But at the same time.
[2022-04-19T20:23:39.941Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You know allows that kind of extensibility go ahead Joe.
[2022-04-19T20:24:02.596Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Well you you can't know if they understand it unless it's fully qualified so you could say unless it's in the VC API it has to be fully qualified but I think if we drop it just because it's not in the VC API then that's not extensible right.
[2022-04-19T20:24:32.407Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah but you know again the I think point is that the large swaths of the Jason Community Live by that thing where it does not need to be fully qualified you just you know if you like the job stuff if you don't if you don't recognize the thing then you just ignore it you drop it on the floor right and and that is one design philosophy the question is do we follow that that's what the law design.
[2022-04-19T20:24:32.659Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  philosophy or do we say that.
[2022-04-19T20:24:43.742Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Things need you know Java like reverse domain names or need just fully qualified URLs go ahead Longley.
[2022-04-19T20:25:12.069Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I think we have an additional difference in this situation because I believe that we're developing Jason schemas that would reject any additional properties that are not known that are not part of the spec and so in order to run the kinds of experiments that people might want to run to do extensibility they would have to open that up and that kind of implies that they would understand those but those properties in their own ecosystem where that would be opened up.
[2022-04-19T20:25:44.312Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: B extensibility in the space is a little bit different from in the full open world space with VCS where you definitely want to have fully qualified names because anybody could be saying anything about anything and interacting with anyone in any way and these These apis are slightly more locked down in that case I would say that I'm not against having a statement in the speck that says if you want to.
[2022-04-19T20:25:44.989Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Are met with names they.
[2022-04-19T20:25:45.042Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: To be fully.
[2022-04-19T20:25:53.102Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: But that to me also feels like it's going to fall into sort of the anti pattern of.
[2022-04-19T20:26:08.664Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: The browser qualified CSS terms or X headers so I'm not sure if that's the right approach for an API.
[2022-04-19T20:26:33.889Z]	<Dave_Longley>	there is no "start off" ... it's forever
[2022-04-19T20:26:42.654Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Right and in the for those that are unfamiliar with the browser qualified x dash anti-pattern what the browser vendors found was that when they start off with really long fully qualified names or just fully qualified names like x dash Mozilla Dash blah Dash blah that people start using and depending on those and then they start doing massive you know creating like massive CSS files where you have x dash.
[2022-04-19T20:26:43.266Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Webkit Dash block.
[2022-04-19T20:27:09.266Z]	<Dave_Longley>	q?
[2022-04-19T20:27:15.993Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Mozilla Dash block stash Opera Dash blah and they just put in a ton of different things before the thing is standardized and then once you standardize it you can't remove that code or at least there has been a propensity to just never remove that code and always leave it in there so that's the challenge with fully qualified names is that some point it ossifies in your software needs to support it whether whether or not it was experimental at the time and so the suggestion.
[2022-04-19T20:27:16.346Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  that the browser vendors have made is.
[2022-04-19T20:27:29.707Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Is one of the concerns that we don’t want API callers to need to spell out the terms via URIs?
[2022-04-19T20:27:31.383Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Pretend as if your extension is going to be standardized at some point in Define the term and have a spec for it and you know that that sort of thing so.
[2022-04-19T20:27:35.184Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's a it's a tough.
[2022-04-19T20:27:38.964Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-04-19T20:27:42.442Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's a it's a difficult discussion Joe I don't know if your cue is old or not.
[2022-04-19T20:27:49.526Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: In jail you might be muted if you're talking.
[2022-04-19T20:27:49.752Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack joe
[2022-04-19T20:28:21.009Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah but I'm not sure it's the same case because there isn't the ability in the other architecture to have a future term that maps to the old term I can automatically have that work but we can do that by adding the term to the spec and even identifying that as perhaps having originated as this other term right those are all json-ld is and.
[2022-04-19T20:28:21.324Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  but it's a different.
[2022-04-19T20:28:54.839Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Mark if if what we say is that the Jason LL that Json property must be in the VC API then we don't have extensibility which I think would be a negative because I think what's what we need to be able to support is different components in the ecosystem right the the issue our app and the verifier app being able to innovate independently that is that is our challenge we.
[2022-04-19T20:28:55.149Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  have a monolithic system.
[2022-04-19T20:29:11.397Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: If my issuer has a new service in the verifier doesn't quite support it I don't want them to drop it or I potentially don't want them to drop it I wanted to pass it through so we can get to the right party.
[2022-04-19T20:29:19.006Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-04-19T20:29:29.153Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Right here I think I saw you say something in chat but I missed it I don't know if you want to vocalize it.
[2022-04-19T20:29:56.930Z]	<Transcriber>	Kayode_Ezike: Sure yeah I was just looking over some of my comments again just to refresh my memory but I think when I had made them I was thinking that one of the one of the kind of leading questions or concerns maybe was that we didn't want to put like I guess API calls in a position where they would have to spell out two terms fear their absolute uri's that they map to and the vocabularies is that not part of what the motivation was for for.
[2022-04-19T20:29:57.545Z]	<Transcriber>	Kayode_Ezike:  or rather is that not part of like the concern.
[2022-04-19T20:30:05.332Z]	<Transcriber>	Kayode_Ezike: Not enabling contacts and other json-ld isms or something else here.
[2022-04-19T20:30:37.212Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: No you've got it I mean if we just put a context at the top then people could use the terms and they'd be fully qualified and everything would be fine the issue of course is that there's a subset of the community that absolutely does not want to do that they don't want json-ld anything in the BC API and given how every working group we have that has json-ld as a part of the work item ends up in this kind of like.
[2022-04-19T20:30:37.973Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Fight over Jason Aldean versus.
[2022-04-19T20:31:10.583Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I think what we're trying to do is just start out with the API and say no json-ld and in see in see how far we can get understanding that there are plenty of apis out there that are json-based apis that don't use json-ld and they do they do fine for some definition of fine so you're right coyote we could we could do that in make it.
[2022-04-19T20:31:22.425Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: At the same time I think we've heard push back on doing that Joe you're on the queue.
[2022-04-19T20:31:28.797Z]	<Dave_Longley>	+1 to Jason Aldean
[2022-04-19T20:31:50.643Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah two things one I want to celebrate our hero Jason Aldean because I love the transcriber but more seriously there's a point of process here man and I don't mean to bust your chops over it but are you that voice because you really shouldn't be representing other voices right like if you think it's a bad idea I can support what you're saying but if other people think it's a bad idea we need them to show up in these calls so they can hear the arguments and participate in a collaborative way to deal with.
[2022-04-19T20:31:51.026Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  with the pain.
[2022-04-19T20:31:54.849Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Trying to resolve with these features.
[2022-04-19T20:32:24.694Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes I completely agree with you I am one of let me let me say that I'm one of the voices I'm tired of fighting the json-ld fight and here's a place where we don't have to do it and you know I think we can make a lot of progress on other things if we don't kick off that json-ld fight I think there are other ways of doing extensibility one of them being like let it be a wild west.
[2022-04-19T20:32:30.890Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: On the on the Jay on the API.
[2022-04-19T20:33:03.902Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And see what happens I don't think it's going to be a catastrophic you know thing because remember I mean the reason we use json-ld for verifiable credentials is the design space is so fantastically large right for the VC API design space is not that big the design space is just the VC API in its concentrated enough to the point where I think we can go without Global semantics go ahead Joe.
[2022-04-19T20:33:30.708Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So I don't think it's as simple as you think it is part of it is I'm looking at these apis and you know we don't even know which component it's on like a lot of these things were talking past each other and people are very sophisticated and complex workflows that they're expecting to handle here you know in fact the addition of arbitrary workflows made this insanely complex and so how do you specify workflow of a different type that needs properties that aren't defined yet.
[2022-04-19T20:33:31.263Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: You're dropping all the.
[2022-04-19T20:34:03.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: That I don't have in the existing spec so I think that's really problematic if we want to have customized workflows I I would love to talk with you offline in fact I queued up maybe two months ago man you and notion about this issue that I deferred because of where it's at in the did conversation and the did approval process but I think I think the Jason json-ld distinction is more political than technical.
[2022-04-19T20:34:03.774Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  and because Jason.
[2022-04-19T20:34:33.989Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: And so I would like to get past this false dichotomy and figure out what are the rules so that we can have whatever terms we need and it doesn't break whatever tools people are using that don't want to invoke json-ld because I think we can get there and I don't know that we want to take up more time on this call but I'd be happy to have a conversation with you I'll find to see if you even think I'm being saying about how I'm thinking about it.
[2022-04-19T20:34:38.220Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Plus one of that go ahead Dave.
[2022-04-19T20:35:07.931Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I agree you got a lot with what Joe said but the way I see json-ld is as a tool and if the tool is unnecessary in some space don't use the tool but if it's necessary in another space use the tool and I think we just need to be clear about where those lines are and then they might be more of a spectrum than a line so there's you know we might be bumping into fuzzy gray areas where we could go one way or the other.
[2022-04-19T20:35:37.390Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: There's talking about extensibility with respect to workflows json-ld starts to make a lot more sense than if we're just talking about options for passing in crypto sweet names to an API so I think there's I think there's a spectrum and the technology makes a lot of sense the more open and more unpredictable possible extensions might be and so that's my feedback.
[2022-04-19T20:35:45.401Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right all great all great comments and input.
[2022-04-19T20:36:17.788Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So this issue was specifically about URL options and it didn't necessarily contemplate what you just said Joe which was the workflows bit and I agree with you and think it gets much harder to make this decision when we have a much more open design space and also agree with what they've saying about you know json-ld being a spectrum of problems that you can apply to some of them make sense some of.
[2022-04-19T20:36:18.431Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You know don't.
[2022-04-19T20:36:29.771Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Can we take one of these options off the table like absolute URLs does anyone here feel like that is a winning strategy.
[2022-04-19T20:36:56.683Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I can anyone speak in support of using absolute URL so the choices would be between just like Jason Wild West you know just use short terms they don't map to anything full stop and then the other alternative is figure out some way to apply json-ld context in that tells you what terms you can use.
[2022-04-19T20:36:56.946Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  but is anyone.
[2022-04-19T20:37:04.261Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	Options: a-wild west
b-json-ld-context
c-fully qualified
[2022-04-19T20:37:09.739Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: For like fully qualified URLs as as options to put into the VC API go ahead Dave.
[2022-04-19T20:37:37.902Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I think we have to break down what we're talking about first in for like I like I was saying before we're talking about options passed into terms like crypto sweets I think those can just be really simple terms I think that's a closed mostly closed space and there's no need to adopt additional complexity in that space when we're talking about designing entire workflows or expressing business rules.
[2022-04-19T20:37:38.374Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  rules that would go into like exchanges.
[2022-04-19T20:37:59.931Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: That's a much more open space that probably needs a tool like json-ld to be able to handle the extensibility over there so I think we need to think we need difference I think we need to adopt the appropriate extensibility strategy for whatever component we're talking about.
[2022-04-19T20:38:04.593Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2022-04-19T20:38:06.026Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay Joe you're on the queue.
[2022-04-19T20:38:06.076Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack joe
[2022-04-19T20:38:18.014Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	+1 Dave_Longley
[2022-04-19T20:38:44.674Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I'm not sure if what I was trying to argue for is one of those three which is why I listed them and chat my sense is if it's not a fully qualified URL this is altogether if it is not a fully qualified URL that it must be a term defined in a VC API specification I guess that is may be functional at the same as saying there will be a VC API context and that will define those terms.
[2022-04-19T20:38:45.193Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I feel that the language.
[2022-04-19T20:39:11.070Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Is very json-ld specific whereas I mean what I'm worried about is someone wants to innovate in a workflow and that needs a new Option passed to a endpoint that before didn't have an option of that type how do we plug that in if we are wholesale ignoring terms that are not in the VC API spec.
[2022-04-19T20:39:17.355Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: But if it's in the spec I don't want to have to be fully qualified that feels like a mess.
[2022-04-19T20:39:41.429Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah so one one strategy of course is the tried-and-true registry so we just have a registry and if you're in the registry it's totally fine to use short terms and if you're not then you've got to have a full full URL that's another you know approach that's kind of a low bar of Entry that ensures global interop.
[2022-04-19T20:39:41.707Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  I agree.
[2022-04-19T20:40:12.588Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Everything you said Joe you know if it's in the spec it's Overkill to put it anywhere else or so sorry it's Overkill to have a fully qualified URL if it's in the spec but we need to support you know extensibility and how do we do that the options are the same options here and always have which is you know mechanism like json-ld to do decentralized extensibility or a centralized registry to do.
[2022-04-19T20:40:12.910Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  wised extensibility.
[2022-04-19T20:40:19.760Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And they could all you know they are all they're all workable Technical Solutions.
[2022-04-19T20:40:28.310Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: What are the next steps here how can we move this issue forward.
[2022-04-19T20:40:41.917Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I guess is anyone here Mike's assigned here is anyone willing to help Mike kind of push this conversation forward.
[2022-04-19T20:41:04.627Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So given given your disposition and speaking with that voice many which I appreciate that you said you are one of those people I would like to understand like in an issue so we can debate it why json-ld is not a suitable answer.
[2022-04-19T20:41:13.212Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Like why aren't we using json-ld to deal with these disambiguation of properties.
[2022-04-19T20:41:38.768Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: And I would you know maybe maybe I'm open to the fact that Mike Jones and others who are in the the ante json-ld Camp have legitimate points that I haven't understood yet don't understand that use cases are something but I think it would be good to have a GitHub moderated debate about those points.
[2022-04-19T20:41:50.095Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I guess that issue is not this issue because this one tries to focus on just your all options itself and what we're saying is Well it sure would be nice to resolve the issue more broadly.
[2022-04-19T20:41:54.595Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah I support that maybe a new issues the right place.
[2022-04-19T20:42:06.513Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay okay great issue for terms across all API is outputs.
[2022-04-19T20:42:16.300Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's really all inputs we have a solution for the outputs.
[2022-04-19T20:42:46.556Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so that's the next step there and why don't we go ahead and create that so this is 198 so what's the issue here what is the extensibility story for terms used in the BC API.
[2022-04-19T20:42:51.592Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Can we make a specifically why not you say CLD.
[2022-04-19T20:43:20.210Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I think we need to talk about all the options that's that's why Joe I think you know we need to compare and contrast against the json-ld is just one option so there's option one which is the wild west do whatever no registry option two is used json-ld and option three is use user registry a centralized registry right.
[2022-04-19T20:43:41.693Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Sure but I guess my request in the dialectic is I want someone who doesn't like json-ld tits to document why so that we can discuss it and debate it like if you want me to do that for Jason I could do that as well but I understand how json-ld solves many problems that Json doesn't Json alone doesn't what I don't understand is the meritorious reasons that others feel.
[2022-04-19T20:43:42.116Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  the way they do about Jason.
[2022-04-19T20:43:47.747Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I understand the political reasons or the business reasons but that's not technical.
[2022-04-19T20:44:14.394Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Sure okay so let's let well then we'll open two issues one for Jason Aldean one for Jason right why what are the reason easons that json-ld shouldn't be used for karma extensibility in the VC API.
[2022-04-19T20:44:27.732Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Patient started in issue 198.
[2022-04-19T20:44:51.225Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The group wanted to have a discussion around I around what the reasons for not using json-ld for extensibility and TBI.
[2022-04-19T20:44:56.830Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Sure that's discussion.
[2022-04-19T20:45:03.865Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's all start at one and then.
[2022-04-19T20:45:10.297Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: I know you said the conversation started but it reads the conversation stated.
[2022-04-19T20:45:25.628Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Oh thank you thank you thank you or could we go thank you okay and then this one is using its Jason shouldn't be used Jason.
[2022-04-19T20:45:32.242Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It just Ruiz it's really a Jason registry.
[2022-04-19T20:45:36.336Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Shouldn't be used for term extensibility in the.
[2022-04-19T20:46:01.531Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay there we go to issues raised Joe does that meet your what you were hoping for.
[2022-04-19T20:46:21.480Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	We may want to (kindly) share this issue with folks in the anti-JSON-LD camp?
[2022-04-19T20:46:30.862Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay great um all right so that's that issue it's always it's always a bit depressing when one issue turns into two but at the same time it's a conversation we need to have so so great for that okay next up.
[2022-04-19T20:47:02.690Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The yes coyote we do want to do that would how can we tag people I think maybe my Pro rock quarry might have thoughts on it my Jones would certainly I mean Mike Jones would probably have some thoughts on it Sam Smith with the have some thoughts on it Drummond I think argued pretty.
[2022-04-19T20:47:06.469Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Just read as well but.
[2022-04-19T20:47:26.879Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah the Jason only thing yeah I mean if folks could go to that issue and tag folks that might be best I feel like we also need an explainer on exactly where this extensibility would happen we need some examples otherwise the whole conversation is going to go off the rails.
[2022-04-19T20:47:30.250Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Support for StatusList2021
[2022-04-19T20:47:34.681Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay next topic support for status list 2021.
[2022-04-19T20:47:38.079Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/214
[2022-04-19T20:47:43.113Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This is issued to 14.
[2022-04-19T20:48:10.836Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So my midi raise this one replication status 2020 no longer supported we should migrate to used as list 2021 agreement Marcus push back a bit and said not supported by who or what and then we should migrate t plus 1 that.
[2022-04-19T20:48:44.773Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I think the the high level on this issue is that we're putting out of there's a test suite for status list 20 21 and that's going to be out there I think this this issue was raised during a time where we were trying to pick like one mechanism and I think the new testing our infrastructure doesn't require that to happen so your implementation can support 0 status list or revocation.
[2022-04-19T20:48:45.270Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  Haitian mechanisms and you.
[2022-04-19T20:49:19.660Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Some of the test Suites and you will fail the status list 20 21 sweet and if you don't Implement revocation status 2020 you'll fail that test suite and that's totally fine thing right one of the reasons we split the all these repos apart was so that it was possible to you know pass some level of issuing and verifying that was legitimate like bear credentials don't need status list and they don't need revocation by and large.
[2022-04-19T20:49:20.083Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  my suggestion here is.
[2022-04-19T20:49:29.702Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is this issue and say that the VC API test Suite doesn't need to pick.
[2022-04-19T20:49:52.148Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It doesn't need to pick a sorry what I'm trying to say the the status the the BC API doesn't need to pick a status you know mechanism let me let me stop to see if there are any concerns with that.
[2022-04-19T20:50:02.266Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	I agree we should be mechanism agnostic
[2022-04-19T20:50:18.545Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And Mahmud saying agree that we should be mechanism agnostic the VC API should be mechanism status mechanism agnostic.
[2022-04-19T20:50:49.932Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Yeah this was raised absolutely when we were assuming that migration from revocation list status list would be reasonably quick and most people would just do it as a matter of course and that there would be no real reason to use replication most at that point I think there's a bunch of chain like the thinking has changed since then a few people I still believe we should be able to support both.
[2022-04-19T20:51:04.994Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: Both but yeah I think this is business like we should just say it should support staff listening to anyone as well as I think one that should be his.
[2022-04-19T20:51:14.975Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: No no I'm saying the test should tell support yeah.
[2022-04-19T20:51:35.368Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay are you saying the spec should so this so I think got it okay got it got it the tests okay the tests should support both revocation 2020 and Status least 2021 the VC API spec should be agnostic with respect to the specific status list is the status.
[2022-04-19T20:52:08.875Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The thing and it is totally possible to do that so we've structured some of these new test Suites so that it will test that you have the endpoint in like the endpoint exist and you can do some things with it and then the test Suites themselves they'll be ones for 2020 and 2021 so it is possible to check for the existence of the endpoint or potentially in the future do Discovery to see that the endpoint does exist without having.
[2022-04-19T20:52:09.218Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  to assert that it supports you know.
[2022-04-19T20:52:41.632Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: 20 or status list 2021 those specific tests will be a part of specific test Suites that specifically test those those things okay would there be any objections to effectively saying that so the VC API spec should be agnostic with respect to the status mechanism but Define you know and and point and then there will be test Suites for specific status.
[2022-04-19T20:52:41.926Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  mechanisms as the way that.
[2022-04-19T20:52:46.859Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This any objections.
[2022-04-19T20:53:38.616Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Don't worry it's myth that so the group decide the VC API spec should Define mechanisms to Angus Define in points to modify the status status of a credential and chill but be agnostic with respect to the specific status mechanisms it is expected that test Suites.
[2022-04-19T20:53:38.908Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  will be.
[2022-04-19T20:53:44.294Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: For specific status mechanisms.
[2022-04-19T20:54:03.596Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So we've got that that probably need some spec text and so it's already marked with ready for PR let me clear that.
[2022-04-19T20:54:11.125Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I got it back again make sure.
[2022-04-19T20:54:19.154Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay anything else on this item before we move on to the next one.
[2022-04-19T20:54:30.108Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Discoverability of VC API features
[2022-04-19T20:54:38.771Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Hey the next one is actually a pretty big topic we're not going to get through this but we might as well kick it off every ability of features.
[2022-04-19T20:55:12.153Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: To this issue to 18 or we raise this one the API lacks required discoverability features so basically this is a how do you discover whether or not the API is capable of doing something you want it to do so for example the security schemes that it supports I guess for let's see I guess this means oauth.
[2022-04-19T20:55:12.462Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  and I.
[2022-04-19T20:55:45.242Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I think Brian Richter you suggested maybe you can put that stuff in did web at all Ted said well maybe night should be linked header or he's saying well what about well-known files but fundamentally the idea here is that there is a file that your API exposes that specifies whether or not your API supports a certain feature set or not.
[2022-04-19T20:55:45.544Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  also known it's.
[2022-04-19T20:56:17.892Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This issue yet but there is a mechanism through VPR where it can ask for crypto sweet supported like during the course of next change ask for crypto sweet supported ask for you know a variety of other things of that nature so what was it crypto sweet supported forget the the list of all the things okay thoughts questions around this this is.
[2022-04-19T20:56:18.183Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  has been a bit of a hairy.
[2022-04-19T20:56:29.281Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Comments suggestions what we should do here should we be defining.
[2022-04-19T20:56:38.008Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You know any of these things Mahmood what's the what's the trace of what's where the traceability focus on this.
[2022-04-19T20:57:08.806Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: We haven't really finalize What discovery is means I don't think we've moved forward on how to do this completely features but yeah that's basically it I think a big part of it as well that like there's an expectation that API that you're interacting with you have a channel that you will be communicating with them beforehand and that you authenticated with them in some other way as well and so maybe you don't even need.
[2022-04-19T20:57:09.538Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: This couple video.
[2022-04-19T20:57:09.648Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: As in the API.
[2022-04-19T20:57:17.038Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: You can just send it over email but that's one of the arguments being made right I don't think we've settled on anyway.
[2022-04-19T20:57:48.824Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah that's yeah that's super helpful I mean I yeah I think the the struggle we've had with this discoverability thing is what's the use case I think you know I think we can we can imagine use cases right but today when you go to use an API and you're setting up your oauth token or whatever with that API you end up configuring the endpoint in some way or they.
[2022-04-19T20:57:49.189Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  tell you exactly what.
[2022-04-19T20:58:14.070Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Support so you just don't do the integration like that's how you do the discoveries you use your eyeballs and read you know the stuff that that endpoint can do and then you decide whether or not to connect to it or not so that's one you know one one Viewpoint here I guess the other Viewpoint is.
[2022-04-19T20:58:47.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This is where you need to do that dynamically like in the exchanges sometimes you as a holder you don't want to broadcast the types of crypto Suites that you support it can it can out you and in ways that you know it's just you're giving attackers information or you're exposing information that you don't necessarily want other people to have like the fact that you can do a BBS plus signature right is is leaking some amount of information about your.
[2022-04-19T20:58:47.500Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  Rafa capabilities and sometimes you don't want.
[2022-04-19T20:59:19.685Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You that unless absolutely necessary so there's some privacy concerns around you know how your endpoints configured where you may not actually want to share those through something like well known and you may want to do that within the channel after you've done some level of authentication on with who you're talking to right so basically if you don't authenticate with me and I don't know who you are I'm not going to tell you what my capabilities are in.
[2022-04-19T20:59:20.016Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  that that removes you know.
[2022-04-19T20:59:25.410Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Options like the like header and well-known and did web to a certain degree.
[2022-04-19T20:59:28.446Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Dave.
[2022-04-19T20:59:52.484Z]	<Andy_Miller>	q+
[2022-04-19T20:59:57.145Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I think we need a clear use case that shows where a machine is going to go read this information and respond to it and what by doing something and stablishing creating a configuration one of these endpoints doing I think we're just going to keep going around in circles until someone says here's the use case where we definitely need this and if we don't have that I'd say we don't try to build anything that could have flaws in all these different ways.
[2022-04-19T21:00:26.817Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So basically this is a more information needed at this point.
[2022-04-19T21:00:32.802Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Andy.
[2022-04-19T21:01:00.185Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: I will share that open badges as an API and it supports discover of dynamic registration and to enable that Dynamic registration uses a well-known URL to discover the capabilities so it there are the use case there is that they.
[2022-04-19T21:01:28.852Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: They wanted the ability to simplify the registration process of for for consumers or users or holders of Badges and so that's where the dynamic registration came in and dynamically registration really needed some way of discovering the capabilities and the URLs where is the URL for the authorization server here whatever is required for.
[2022-04-19T21:01:39.198Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Do you know of anyone that we could tag in this issue that could highlight that in more detail.
[2022-04-19T21:01:44.230Z]	<Transcriber>	Andy_Miller: Yeah Nate Otto
[2022-04-19T21:02:18.986Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: yep how many like thoughts on this issue okay great that gives us a lead thank you and be super helpful okay that's it sorry for going over by two minutes but that's the call today really appreciate the discussion we'll keep going through these issues next week thanks all bye.
[2022-04-19T21:02:23.247Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Sorry Manu, could you add me as a VC-API implementer when you get a chance?
[2022-04-19T21:02:33.442Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Yes, will do!
[2022-04-19T21:02:43.428Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Awsome, thanks!

