[2024-01-09T18:00:43.293Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2024-01-09T18:01:36.558Z]	<nis>	present+
[2024-01-09T18:03:28.364Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2024-01-09T18:04:22.580Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2024-01-09T18:08:04.955Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-01-09T18:08:04.955Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-01-09T18:08:19.628Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: My Edinburgh there you go welcome to the first race call of the Year let me turn off the Scribe.
[2024-01-09T18:08:46.221Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: welcome to the first trace call of the year
[2024-01-09T18:09:16.261Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: After normal procedures, we will go through all issues in prep for cutting v1
[2024-01-09T18:09:21.096Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2024-01-09T18:09:29.914Z]	<nis>	Both specs, by end of the month
[2024-01-09T18:09:34.813Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/919
[2024-01-09T18:09:54.817Z]	<nis>	scripe+
[2024-01-09T18:09:58.320Z]	<nis>	scribe+
[2024-01-09T18:10:48.875Z]	<nis>	Two approvals, merging
[2024-01-09T18:10:56.957Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/920
[2024-01-09T18:11:03.132Z]	<nis>	Next, udpated nomination
[2024-01-09T18:11:34.935Z]	<nis>	More agnostic to both gas and oil pipelines
[2024-01-09T18:11:37.249Z]	<nis>	Merging
[2024-01-09T18:11:44.040Z]	<nis>	Next: purge EIP
[2024-01-09T18:11:44.379Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/921/files
[2024-01-09T18:13:32.088Z]	<nis>	Nis: this was based on BTI report, but not used
[2024-01-09T18:14:34.289Z]	<nis>	Nis: These workflows predate our workflow data model, removing them
[2024-01-09T18:14:35.306Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2024-01-09T18:14:45.749Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/595
[2024-01-09T18:15:45.748Z]	<nis>	Nis: long time coming, several iterations with GS1, should be good to merge now.
[2024-01-09T18:15:57.343Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/611/files
[2024-01-09T18:16:33.231Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we don't use VC JWT, seems good to remove
[2024-01-09T18:16:37.409Z]	<nis>	Merging
[2024-01-09T18:17:53.495Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/612
[2024-01-09T18:18:21.720Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: should only matter if your processor it case specific
[2024-01-09T18:18:37.454Z]	<nis>	Chris: let's see if we start failing
[2024-01-09T18:18:53.747Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: interop has 21 issue, vocab 60
[2024-01-09T18:19:09.192Z]	<nis>	Let's go through them from the top
[2024-01-09T18:19:33.808Z]	<nis>	Tag the ones required for v1.
[2024-01-09T18:19:49.626Z]	<nis>	Chris: Is that the same as the VC2 tagging?
[2024-01-09T18:20:13.236Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues
[2024-01-09T18:20:29.886Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/614
[2024-01-09T18:21:14.832Z]	<nis>	Chris: assign to me, I will see why we're doing this
[2024-01-09T18:21:23.442Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: might not be a v1 issue
[2024-01-09T18:22:19.590Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/613
[2024-01-09T18:22:36.196Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: for the record, any objections to moving the meeting time back to the original time?
[2024-01-09T18:22:44.161Z]	<nis>	(No objections)
[2024-01-09T18:23:46.231Z]	<nis>	Chris: the jsonld looks right to me
[2024-01-09T18:24:04.323Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: if the service does not have a context, that needs fixing
[2024-01-09T18:24:40.805Z]	<nis>	Chris: it should be in the DID context
[2024-01-09T18:24:55.611Z]	<nis>	"service" needs to be defined
[2024-01-09T18:26:54.593Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: there's missing context on some terms. This seems like a vocab issue
[2024-01-09T18:27:13.283Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: are we going to do this for v1?
[2024-01-09T18:27:33.012Z]	<nis>	Chris: I can take a stab
[2024-01-09T18:27:56.071Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-01-09T18:27:59.059Z]	<nis>	Label is v1.0
[2024-01-09T18:28:12.437Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/604
[2024-01-09T18:28:31.881Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/602
[2024-01-09T18:28:48.137Z]	<TallTed>	started at top of hour? calendar still shows start at half-past...
[2024-01-09T18:28:50.256Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Remove DID Auth
[2024-01-09T18:28:54.464Z]	<nis>	602
[2024-01-09T18:30:09.572Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: not possible to move the schedule.
[2024-01-09T18:30:18.567Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-01-09T18:30:18.567Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-01-09T18:30:36.557Z]	<nis>	scribe+
[2024-01-09T18:30:39.877Z]	<nis>	Next week we WILL start at this time, half past the hour
[2024-01-09T18:30:58.562Z]	<nis>	Ambition: to cut a v1
[2024-01-09T18:30:58.702Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/602
[2024-01-09T18:31:01.949Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2024-01-09T18:31:33.825Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2024-01-09T18:32:01.505Z]	<nis>	Nis: 602 is DID Auth, we can close
[2024-01-09T18:32:08.393Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: 604 has the resolution
[2024-01-09T18:32:10.048Z]	<nis>	Closing
[2024-01-09T18:32:16.385Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/589
[2024-01-09T18:33:21.794Z]	<nis>	Patrick: the VC API workflows are used to start an exchange
[2024-01-09T18:33:28.987Z]	<nis>	OIDC or DIDComm
[2024-01-09T18:33:50.073Z]	<nis>	Path based on the kind of workflow
[2024-01-09T18:34:08.545Z]	<nis>	Pretty different from the presentation exchange on trace interop
[2024-01-09T18:35:12.964Z]	<nis>	VC API is for shorter exchanges
[2024-01-09T18:35:40.305Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: these are two fundamentally different concepts
[2024-01-09T18:36:18.846Z]	<nis>	Nis: when Manu joined a month ago it sounded like we were much more aligned
[2024-01-09T18:36:37.696Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: could be VC API can also be used long term
[2024-01-09T18:36:56.499Z]	<nis>	Our workflows are month-long
[2024-01-09T18:37:16.206Z]	<nis>	Patrick: across multiple presentation?
[2024-01-09T18:37:19.592Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yes
[2024-01-09T18:37:52.763Z]	<nis>	Nis: to connect multiple presentations
[2024-01-09T18:38:06.446Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: used by the holder
[2024-01-09T18:38:37.572Z]	<nis>	On the VC playground, when you have an issuer with OIDC, you get a workflow exchange id
[2024-01-09T18:38:51.014Z]	<nis>	You get an exchange for the workflow
[2024-01-09T18:38:59.670Z]	<nis>	^ Patrick
[2024-01-09T18:39:18.458Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Patrick, please bring this up on the VC API group
[2024-01-09T18:39:23.577Z]	<nis>	About their understanding
[2024-01-09T18:39:44.964Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/582
[2024-01-09T18:40:30.484Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: this is nice to have
[2024-01-09T18:40:41.090Z]	<nis>	Chris: +1
[2024-01-09T18:40:43.127Z]	<nis>	Nis +1
[2024-01-09T18:41:06.592Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/574
[2024-01-09T18:42:20.190Z]	<nis>	Chris: we closed PR 606 because it was a negative test
[2024-01-09T18:42:34.382Z]	<nis>	Russell: this should be done
[2024-01-09T18:42:39.602Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: closing
[2024-01-09T18:42:54.404Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/544
[2024-01-09T18:44:10.387Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we have oauth mentioned several places
[2024-01-09T18:44:22.255Z]	<nis>	We don't need more
[2024-01-09T18:44:24.888Z]	<nis>	Nis +1
[2024-01-09T18:44:49.567Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we need normative section on who initiates the interaction
[2024-01-09T18:46:20.213Z]	<nis>	Chris: the paragraph in the intro seems to be describing DIDAuth
[2024-01-09T18:47:04.052Z]	<nis>	Patrick: back to workflows, who uses workflow ids?
[2024-01-09T18:47:10.770Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: both holders and verifiers
[2024-01-09T18:48:20.652Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: removing the paragraph is in 572. Closing
[2024-01-09T18:48:35.652Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/543
[2024-01-09T18:50:03.663Z]	<nis>	Patrick: who would be the party creating the workflow id?
[2024-01-09T18:50:55.956Z]	<nis>	Nis: always the holder
[2024-01-09T18:51:05.941Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/534
[2024-01-09T18:51:07.785Z]	<nis>	When you make a presentation, you are a holder
[2024-01-09T18:52:07.259Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/533
[2024-01-09T18:53:55.269Z]	<nis>	Chris: a few have been done
[2024-01-09T18:54:00.101Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I will review
[2024-01-09T18:54:02.043Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/532
[2024-01-09T18:54:44.167Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: important for v1
[2024-01-09T18:54:45.794Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/531
[2024-01-09T18:56:05.174Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/530
[2024-01-09T18:56:20.620Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we removed the workflows today
[2024-01-09T18:56:28.581Z]	<nis>	Nis: confirmed, we merged that today
[2024-01-09T18:56:37.154Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/529
[2024-01-09T18:57:19.571Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: do we still want to make this sectino on relation to VC API?
[2024-01-09T18:57:38.326Z]	<nis>	Patrick: it's just the credentials issue and verify you are using
[2024-01-09T18:57:49.467Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yes, that relation
[2024-01-09T18:58:31.795Z]	<nis>	Patrick: the options when issuing. In trace you do make use of the options, VC API has preconfigurations
[2024-01-09T18:58:52.261Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: that is a good comment
[2024-01-09T18:59:30.870Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: do we still need the section?
[2024-01-09T18:59:46.694Z]	<nis>	Patrick: just say this was inspired by VC API
[2024-01-09T19:00:16.195Z]	<nis>	Makes sense since VC API is also used in other test suites
[2024-01-09T19:00:43.527Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: can we stick around for the last 7 issues
[2024-01-09T19:00:52.934Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/528
[2024-01-09T19:01:29.220Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: abstract update. Straight forward
[2024-01-09T19:01:45.810Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/506
[2024-01-09T19:03:16.300Z]	<nis>	Nis: we are not making a dependency between VC2.2 for Trace v1
[2024-01-09T19:03:19.583Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: no
[2024-01-09T19:03:37.877Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we should make cryptography list
[2024-01-09T19:03:40.442Z]	<nis>	Pinging Orie
[2024-01-09T19:04:11.364Z]	<nis>	Chris: VC2.0 was supposed to halt the issue discussion until upgrade
[2024-01-09T19:04:29.747Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yes, but considering from a Trace v1 perspective
[2024-01-09T19:04:34.676Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/496
[2024-01-09T19:05:30.553Z]	<nis>	Chris: will review
[2024-01-09T19:05:33.638Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/482
[2024-01-09T19:06:39.761Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Revoc2020 is deprecated, do we want to switch references to SL 2021?
[2024-01-09T19:07:29.264Z]	<nis>	Patrick: sounds like it could go. The flow is the same
[2024-01-09T19:07:57.797Z]	<nis>	I just implemented both, 2021 only would streamline things
[2024-01-09T19:08:48.288Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/453
[2024-01-09T19:09:09.317Z]	<nis>	Chris: JWT request body
[2024-01-09T19:09:39.614Z]	<nis>	Nis: we just removed the VC JWT collection
[2024-01-09T19:09:54.914Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: this is JOSE/COSE
[2024-01-09T19:10:21.996Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
[2024-01-09T19:11:39.918Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/359
[2024-01-09T19:11:46.687Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I want to say no to supporting SD_JWT  on Trace v1
[2024-01-09T19:11:48.654Z]	<nis>	Nis +1
[2024-01-09T19:11:54.772Z]	<nis>	Too ambitious
[2024-01-09T19:13:13.556Z]	<nis>	Patrick: how do I test that revocation actually work?
[2024-01-09T19:14:00.253Z]	<nis>	Patrick: only negative testing
[2024-01-09T19:17:08.405Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: please review Vocab issues before next week
[2024-01-09T19:17:19.429Z]	<nis>	So we can go through the 60 issues quickly
[2024-01-09T19:17:34.312Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: next week reverting to the original time
[2024-01-09T19:22:10.086Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/blob/main/docs/openapi/components/schemas/common/TradeLineItem.yml
[2024-01-09T19:22:14.774Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/blob/main/docs/openapi/components/schemas/common/TraceabilityAPI.yml
[2024-01-09T19:28:58.726Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/919
