Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Mahmoud Alkhraishi and chris_abernethy for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-11-08-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-11-08-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2022-11-08

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Nov&period_year=2022&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Mahmoud Alkhraishi and chris_abernethy
Present:
  Ben - Transmute, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, vivien, PaulDietrich GS1, 
  TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Jim Masloski, 
  Chris Abernethy, Ted Thibodeau

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Ben_-_Transmute: Then I will turn off captions.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi is scribing.
Ben: ipnote and agenda
<pauldietrich_gs1> any time for a quick announcement?
Ben: Trace Vocab week.
https://ref.gs1.org/gs1/vc-data-model/
<pauldietrich_gs1> pdietrich@gs1us.org
Paul: GS1 working on VC for licenses for ids, doc from global 
  office. no GH repo but open for comments. please contact paul.
Paul: We support company ids for gtin, this is our attempt at 
  building VCs for ids, hoping to engage with trace for trusted 
  identifiers.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/608
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/613
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  608, Change request on description
Ben: 613: 3 approvals no CR, merging
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/614
Ben: 614: changes type to required on all schema's, consistency 
  fix. 3 approvals no CRs, merging.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/615
Vivien: Probably a name change that was not carried forward, so 
  this keeps it in line with the existing files.
Ted Thibodeau:  I can live with the change.
Vivien: Its an autogen file, we should open an issue to fix it.
Ben: Creating issue to track name change. Since this PR is just 
  about an eventCredential, no objections so will merge.
Ben: No PRs on trace interop
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Ben: We should be more aggressive about managing issues in 
  trace-vocab.
Ted Thibodeau:  Strongly for adding pending close and pinging the 
  person
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/267
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  There will be many changes to BOL due to the 
  master shipping changes.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/278
Ben: will assign Nis
Chris: Cannot take issue 278 due to priorities should assign 
  Russel
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/279
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/312
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Stale issue, already solved in #529
Ben: I want to kepe it as a string, on second thought.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Schema.org expects it to be a number, should 
  probably keep it in line
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/516
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/532
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Assign me to this issue, action item unclear 
  but we'll try to create a use case flow for it.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Not sure what the action itme on this issue 
  is, should ping to ask
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/530
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Should ask vlad to participate in the call 
  to present on it, if not we should close the issue
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/462
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/534
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Assign me, i'll review other ontology 
  visualization tools
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  @Paul would love if someone from gs1 to 
  present on EPCIS and how we can use it in the Vocab
Paul: Will look into it
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/274
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Because Vlad specifically asked to reopen 
  the issue, we should keep it open, but ping him to get a PR.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/531
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  This is tracked on another issue, should 
  probably add a pending close on the issue.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/284
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think we want to define as few as 
  possible, and if we really need to we can define an ontology 
  here. might be worth a topic call to do a pros/cons
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/281
Ben: I agree with Orie's point we really shouldn't have new terms 
  if possible, if we aboslutely must we should have a vocab 
  section.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Any idea when you would remove EAN/UPC vs 
  GTIN?
Paul: Will follow up on this, and get a GS1 GTIN expert to 
  comment
<chris_abernethy> We should tag or assign russel on this one too
Chris: We should assign russel
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/285
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Should get an update on this, theres lots of 
  discussion going on here.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Need to drop
chris_abernethy is scribing.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/536
Ben: we are waiting on unvocab 1.0 to be finalized on this one
Ben: assigning to nis
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/290
Ben: any action on this one? Without Mahmoud, Nis, or Orie to 
  provide context, we may not make too much progress on this 
  call...
Chris: agreed, not much we can do with current participants
Chris: I will post minutes
