[2022-11-08T18:30:11.306Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2022-11-08T18:30:53.315Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2022-11-08T18:31:07.873Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-11-08T18:31:09.805Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	present+
[2022-11-08T18:31:37.448Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-11-08T18:32:30.978Z]	<Jim_Masloski>	present+
[2022-11-08T18:32:56.806Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-11-08T18:33:37.910Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-11-08T18:33:45.146Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	present+
[2022-11-08T18:34:12.740Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-11-08T18:34:12.740Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2022-11-08T18:34:25.903Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Then I will turn off captions.
[2022-11-08T18:34:33.608Z]	<Mahmoud>	scribe+
[2022-11-08T18:34:57.086Z]	<Mahmoud>	Ben: ipnote and agenda
[2022-11-08T18:35:24.619Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	any time for a quick announcement?
[2022-11-08T18:35:30.142Z]	<Mahmoud>	Ben: Trace Vocab week.
[2022-11-08T18:35:38.756Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	https://ref.gs1.org/gs1/vc-data-model/
[2022-11-08T18:36:12.826Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	pdietrich@gs1us.org
[2022-11-08T18:36:22.015Z]	<Mahmoud>	Paul: GS1 working on VC for licenses for ids, doc from global office. no GH repo but open for comments. please contact paul.
[2022-11-08T18:37:03.662Z]	<Mahmoud>	Paul: We support company ids for gtin, this is our attempt at building VCs for ids, hoping to engage with trace for trusted identifiers.
[2022-11-08T18:37:08.584Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/608
[2022-11-08T18:38:15.851Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/613
[2022-11-08T18:38:25.553Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: 608, change request on description
[2022-11-08T18:38:57.918Z]	<Mahmoud>	Ben: 613: 3 approvals no CR, merging
[2022-11-08T18:39:04.574Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/614
[2022-11-08T18:39:42.453Z]	<Mahmoud>	Ben: 614: changes type to required on all schema's, consistency fix. 3 approvals no CRs, merging.
[2022-11-08T18:39:56.709Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/615
[2022-11-08T18:41:21.755Z]	<Mahmoud>	Vivien: Probably a name change that was not carried forward, so this keeps it in line with the existing files.
[2022-11-08T18:42:17.706Z]	<Mahmoud>	TallTed: I can live with the change.
[2022-11-08T18:42:27.088Z]	<Mahmoud>	Vivien: Its an autogen file, we should open an issue to fix it.
[2022-11-08T18:43:58.410Z]	<Mahmoud>	Ben: Creating issue to track name change. Since this PR is just about an eventCredential, no objections so will merge.
[2022-11-08T18:44:20.464Z]	<Mahmoud>	Ben: No PRs on trace interop
[2022-11-08T18:44:35.989Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2022-11-08T18:45:42.359Z]	<Mahmoud>	Ben: We should be more aggressive about managing issues in trace-vocab.
[2022-11-08T18:45:53.232Z]	<Mahmoud>	Ted: Strongly for adding pending close and pinging the person
[2022-11-08T18:45:59.823Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/267
[2022-11-08T18:46:23.143Z]	<Mahmoud>	q+
[2022-11-08T18:47:18.093Z]	<Mahmoud>	q-
[2022-11-08T18:47:34.961Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: there will be many changes to BOL due to the master shipping changes.
[2022-11-08T18:47:38.277Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/278
[2022-11-08T18:47:45.737Z]	<Mahmoud>	Ben: will assign Nis
[2022-11-08T18:48:51.818Z]	<Mahmoud>	Chris: Cannot take issue 278 due to priorities should assign Russel
[2022-11-08T18:49:07.950Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/279
[2022-11-08T18:50:04.648Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/312
[2022-11-08T18:50:07.339Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: Stale issue, already solved in #529
[2022-11-08T18:50:40.463Z]	<Mahmoud>	q+
[2022-11-08T18:51:26.507Z]	<Mahmoud>	Ben: I want to kepe it as a string, on second thought.
[2022-11-08T18:51:36.658Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: Schema.org expects it to be a number, should probably keep it in line
[2022-11-08T18:51:39.511Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/516
[2022-11-08T18:53:35.712Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/532
[2022-11-08T18:53:47.460Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: Assign me to this issue, action item unclear but we'll try to create a use case flow for it.
[2022-11-08T18:54:59.692Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: Not sure what the action itme on this issue is, should ping to ask
[2022-11-08T18:55:43.299Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/530
[2022-11-08T18:57:29.583Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: Should ask vlad to participate in the call to present on it, if not we should close the issue
[2022-11-08T18:57:37.777Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/462
[2022-11-08T19:01:16.792Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/534
[2022-11-08T19:01:18.849Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: Assign me, i'll review other ontology visualization tools
[2022-11-08T19:04:02.186Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: @paul would love if someone from gs1 to present on EPCIS and how we can use it in the Vocab
[2022-11-08T19:04:09.753Z]	<Mahmoud>	Paul: Will look into it
[2022-11-08T19:04:18.226Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/274
[2022-11-08T19:06:06.972Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: Because Vlad specifically asked to reopen the issue, we should keep it open, but ping him to get a PR.
[2022-11-08T19:06:25.455Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/531
[2022-11-08T19:08:27.629Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: This is tracked on another issue, should probably add a pending close on the issue.
[2022-11-08T19:08:30.388Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/284
[2022-11-08T19:10:49.374Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: I think we want to define as few as possible, and if we really need to we can define an ontology here. might be worth a topic call to do a pros/cons
[2022-11-08T19:11:12.268Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/281
[2022-11-08T19:11:13.789Z]	<Mahmoud>	Ben: I agree with Orie's point we really shouldn't have new terms if possible, if we aboslutely must we should have a vocab section.
[2022-11-08T19:12:02.571Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: Any idea when you would remove EAN/UPC vs GTIN?
[2022-11-08T19:12:21.013Z]	<Mahmoud>	Paul: Will follow up on this, and get a GS1 GTIN expert to comment
[2022-11-08T19:12:24.650Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	We should tag or assign russel on this one too
[2022-11-08T19:12:53.187Z]	<Mahmoud>	Chris: We should assign russel
[2022-11-08T19:13:12.765Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/285
[2022-11-08T19:15:35.434Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: Should get an update on this, theres lots of discussion going on here.
[2022-11-08T19:15:56.420Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: Need to drop
[2022-11-08T19:16:13.297Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	scribe+
[2022-11-08T19:16:29.407Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/536
[2022-11-08T19:17:02.880Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Ben: we are waiting on unvocab 1.0 to be finalized on this one
[2022-11-08T19:17:28.890Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Ben: assigning to nis
[2022-11-08T19:17:39.833Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/290
[2022-11-08T19:19:02.367Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Ben: any action on this one? Without Mahmoud, Nis, or Orie to provide context, we may not make too much progress on this call...
[2022-11-08T19:19:29.601Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Chris: agreed, not much we can do with current participants
[2022-11-08T19:19:55.424Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Chris: I will post minutes
