Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Benjamin Collins for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-03-07-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-03-07-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-03-07

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Mar&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Benjamin Collins
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Benjamin Collins, Chris Abernethy, Mahmoud 
  Alkhraishi, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), 
  Orie Steele, Russell Hofvendahl

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Benjamin Collins is scribing.
Chris - Welcome to the tracability weekly meeting, today is 
  trace-introp.
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/523
Chris Abernethy:  Right now we have 4 PR's, we're going to skip 
  the draft
Chris Abernethy:  This is in response to an issue that Issac 
  brought up where we require id for issue, which breaks 
  compatibility with VC-API. So this PR updates the test to make id 
  optional.
Chris Abernethy:  Orie mentions this will break compatibility 
  with GS1
Orie Steele:  Can we share screens and bring up the respec 
  document?
Orie Steele:  If you see in the example that we're looking at, 
  the context has credentials v1 and then a gs1 context. If we we 
  were to use this test on this credential it would fail
Orie Steele:  Prior to having GS1 we required our context in our 
  credentials, but now with GS1, this will cause it to fail
Chris Abernethy:  This PR is about credentials.id and it happens 
  to include copy and pasted code from other tests that had that 
  context from the tests you highlighted
Chris Abernethy:  My suggestion would be to merge it and then fix 
  the context issues seprately
Orie Steele:  Why is the credential context included in this 
  test?
Chris Abernethy:  It's included in a lot of tests, that we need 
  to take out
Orie Steele:  So you're proposal is to merge this and then fix 
  the context in a separate issue. I'm okay as long as we have an 
  issue linked on the PR.
Chris Abernethy:  The reason that it's in there is because 
  previously we want to have a specific check for looking at 
  variables in an array, and it was copy and pasted into a lot of 
  tests.
Chris Abernethy:  I will add a comment and then we can remove 
  these from the tests as a separate issue.
Chris Abernethy:  Are folks okay with merging this once we have 
  an issue and then merge this, or do we want to wait until next 
  week?
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/524
Chris Abernethy:  This is a PR to add emails for editors for an 
  issue opened by Orie
Orie Steele:  Hey, I haven't seen the extra syntax
Chris Abernethy:  I added an image to show what it looks like, 
  it's a mail-to link.
Orie Steele:  This is editorial, it can be merged. We're had 
  people from IETF reach out with questions about how to get in 
  contact with editors.
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/525
Chris Abernethy:  This final editor is PR 525 which adds text of 
  the IPR note to the meeting instructions before starting a 
  meeting.
Orie Steele:  I support merging this, this eems worth while.
Chris Abernethy:  Those are the PR's for interop, and there are 
  no PR's open for trace-vocab this week.
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Orie Steele:  I think that's the first time this has happened.
Benjamin Collins:  Nis was out last week
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/481
Chris Abernethy:  I suspect that had something to do with it
Chris Abernethy:  This is for documentation for verification 
  results to show what each of the results mean.
Orie Steele:  Mahmoud had comments bout this, but I think that 
  was a different issue. Do we have consensus that we have a 
  specific JSON shape for what needs to be returned?
Chris Abernethy:  I think I agree with that, but I'm not sure we 
  can do that with the openAPI schema given this is an array
Orie Steele:  I think it's possible to define these in openapi 
  specification. But i think the question is do we like the shape, 
  because then we can address this that way.
Orie Steele:  We could say that the boolean verified status is 
  the only thing that matters.
Chris Abernethy:  I'm okay with that
Orie Steele:  Let's put a comment on the issue that says, only 
  the 'verified' boolean must be present, additionalProerties true
Chris Abernethy:  Adding label 'ready for PR'
Russell Hofvendahl:  I can do that
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
Orie Steele:  I have yet to sit down with this, I will make 
  additional comments, but there is no action here yet.
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/427
Chris Abernethy:  This is about using did:jwk instead of using 
  did:key
Orie Steele:  I was on a podcast yesterday discussing did:key vs 
  did:jwk
Orie Steele:  I think if we're using web keys, then it makes more 
  sense to use did:jwk. But we might say that only did:web is 
  required and the other did methods are not included in the 
  profile
Orie Steele:  Are we only using did:web at this point, and if 
  that's the case we can close this
Orie Steele:  I think we can say did:key are did:jwk are not 
  supported by the profile
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Do we need to specifically call them out and 
  say it's not part of the profile
Orie Steele:  I mean if it's not included in the tests, it's not 
  part of the profile. We should leave a comment on the issue and 
  close it.
Chris Abernethy:  I will go ahead and leave a comment to that 
  effect.
Orie Steele:  Seems good to me, can we close it?
Chris Abernethy:  Closing it now.
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/402
Chris Abernethy:  This one was created by Orie, and Nis promised 
  us to have it done by today
Orie Steele:  It's on interop, but it seems like it should be on 
  vocab, like a vocab credential that covers this first
Orie Steele:  Oh, it's about postman. It's about support for this 
  endpoint in the interop profile
Orie Steele:  This needs to be described in respec, then a 
  postman collection to implement those tests. And then potentially 
  there is a lot of work behind that
Orie Steele:  If this is just an idea, then we might just close 
  it
Orie Steele:  Are there any implementer on the call intended into 
  implementing this end point?
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/359
Orie Steele:  If not then we should close it.
Chris Abernethy:  This is opened by me. Some work has been done, 
  we need some positive tests. But no work has been done.
Orie Steele:  This says that it's blocked by 468, do we want to 
  jump to that?
Chris Abernethy:  468 Was referenced to how we reference a 
  verifiable credential, to get status list, to get it by id 
  because credential.id is optional.
Chris Abernethy:  We were thinking that we would make it 
  required, but the issue is that break capability with VC-API.
Orie Steele:  I'll dispute what Isaac is saying there. There is 
  no way to issue a revocable credential without an id. The end 
  point needs to have an id.
Chirs: This is about when the id is present, before or after the 
  issue present in the request object, or the returned signed.
Orie Steele:  In our profile, we don't have a problem with this, 
  because for revocable credentials you will always have an id to 
  be able to revoke it.
Orie Steele:  The conformance for credential status, that should 
  be testable without changing these
Chris Abernethy:  The reason it was dependent because we weren't 
  sure of the shape.
Chris Abernethy:  I think the result is proposal 4 where you MAY 
  provide an id, but the server MUST return a credential with an id
Chris Abernethy:  So the server will only generate an id if it is 
  not present already
Chris Abernethy:  Okay. I think this is ready for PR.
Nis Jespersen :  I think that we want to capture that we're going 
  with option 4, the last comment says option 6
Chris Abernethy:  Does anyone have an objection to option 4 based 
  on the current discussion?
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> Have to drop i have a conflict
Nis Jespersen :  What was the reasoning?
Chris Abernethy:  I think the reasoning was that we wanted a 
  single party to be responsible for the credential.id. And as 
  Isaac pointed out that causes a lot of problems where we go with 
  the fallback of expecting the issuer to make an id and have the 
  server generate one if not present.
Chris Abernethy:  I think this has been addressed, so I will 
  leave a comment to that effect.
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/483
Chris Abernethy:  This one is about the shape error responsed.
Chris Abernethy:  I suggest that we don't proceed that we wait 
  for Mahmoud to proceed on this issue.
Benjamin Collins:  I think I agree with the sentiment here. I 
  think we want to define an specific http response code, or a 
  minimal response that MUST be there, and then vendors implement 
  what's better for their customers on top of that with respect to 
  error messages.
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/438
Chris Abernethy:  The downside of that is that if we want to have 
  conformance for something to fail for a specific reason. But we 
  might way that we expect a 400 and as long as we get that we're 
  okay
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/453
Chris Abernethy:  This one is to say the expected response is a 
  JSON object, but it might be a JWT. I have not done anything with 
  this, it is still on my todo list.
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/460
Chris Abernethy:  This is about adding postman information into 
  the respec. I think that Orie and Mahmoud want this in the respec 
  document, but I want some guidance on where and how that should 
  be represented.
Nis Jespersen :  Isn't this adding a section? Does it matter 
  where it sits?
Chris Abernethy:  I haven't written much of the respec document, 
  so I want to have a little feedback before going in blind.
Chris Abernethy:  I can take a stab at this and people could yell 
  at me in comments on  the PR.
Nis Jespersen :  I agree with that approach, do what you think is 
  the least bad, and then it's easy to move around
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/464
Nis Jespersen :  The workflows have these big american badges on 
  them. I got a comment that these were American-centric. The issue 
  was about making it more generic.
Nis Jespersen :  The ISF is a good example of workflows. Maybe i 
  can run down the 'MURICA feel, and then keep the ISF example.
Chris Abernethy:  That sounds fine to me, I don't want to lose 
  the example, and we swap out the graphics.
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/457
Chris Abernethy:  This one is related to using OAuth with Azure 
  as Azure enforces naming different from the scopes that we use
Chris Abernethy:  That means that no-one using Azure can 
  implement the spec. Nis wanted Microsoft to weigh in before 
  making any changes.
Chris Abernethy:  Generally with m2m OAuth, when you auth, you 
  get all of the scopes available to you. We had to do some 
  manipulation to see what happens when you are missing scopes. The 
  test would lose granularity, but we would need to remove a few 
  tests for specific scopes.
Nis Jespersen :  The tactic was to get Microsoft involved, and 
  say, "we'll put a bad label on you", but that doesn't seem to 
  have gotten their attention.
Nis Jespersen :  My suggestion would be to make another attempt 
  to get them to interact on this again.
Chris Abernethy:  How should we reach out to them, or should we 
  implement Orie's suggestion of adding a warning around using 
  Azure?
Chris Abernethy:  We need to decide what that says, if we say 
  "you can't use Azure-AD if you want to issue verifiable 
  credentials" that's a line in the sand that I'm not sure I want 
  to cross.
Nis Jespersen :  Let's leave a comment to Orie to ask him to 
  reach out again.
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/485
Benjamin Collins:  This is saying that  that we want to be able 
  to have a way to show intent for documents that have been sent in 
  error, or that need to be amended and how we address that over 
  the wire.
Scribe-
