[2023-03-07T18:31:55.195Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-03-07T18:31:55.196Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-03-07T18:31:55.197Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-03-07T18:32:10.215Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2023-03-07T18:32:16.842Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-03-07T18:32:38.956Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-03-07T18:34:52.617Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-03-07T18:34:52.617Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-03-07T18:34:56.899Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe+
[2023-03-07T18:35:27.571Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris - Welcome to the tracability weekly meeting, today is trace-introp.
[2023-03-07T18:35:47.348Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
[2023-03-07T18:35:50.683Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-03-07T18:36:00.752Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-03-07T18:36:03.126Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/523
[2023-03-07T18:36:07.517Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: Right now we have 4 PR's, we're going to skip the draft
[2023-03-07T18:37:21.606Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This is in response to an issue that Issac brought up where we require id for issue, which breaks compatibility with VC-API. So this PR updates the test to make id optional.
[2023-03-07T18:37:43.866Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: Orie mentions this will break compatibility with GS1
[2023-03-07T18:37:55.129Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Can we share screens and bring up the respec document?
[2023-03-07T18:38:28.538Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: If you see in the example that we're looking at, the context has credentials v1 and then a gs1 context. If we we were to use this test on this credential it would fail
[2023-03-07T18:39:02.411Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Prior to having GS1 we required our context in our credentials, but now with GS1, this will cause it to fail
[2023-03-07T18:39:38.519Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This PR is about credentials.id and it happens to include copy and pasted code from other tests that had that context from the tests you highlighted
[2023-03-07T18:39:57.538Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: My suggestion would be to merge it and then fix the context issues seprately
[2023-03-07T18:40:09.558Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Why is the credential context included in this test?
[2023-03-07T18:40:29.518Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: It's included in a lot of tests, that we need to take out
[2023-03-07T18:40:59.088Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: So you're proposal is to merge this and then fix the context in a separate issue. I'm okay as long as we have an issue linked on the PR.
[2023-03-07T18:41:44.196Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: The reason that it's in there is because previously we want to have a specific check for looking at variables in an array, and it was copy and pasted into a lot of tests.
[2023-03-07T18:42:01.033Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I will add a comment and then we can remove these from the tests as a separate issue.
[2023-03-07T18:42:34.528Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: Are folks okay with merging this once we have an issue and then merge this, or do we want to wait until next week?
[2023-03-07T18:42:39.654Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/524
[2023-03-07T18:43:15.881Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This is a PR to add emails for editors for an issue opened by Orie
[2023-03-07T18:43:25.655Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Hey, I haven't seen the extra syntax
[2023-03-07T18:43:44.952Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I added an image to show what it looks like, it's a mail-to link.
[2023-03-07T18:44:15.527Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: This is editorial, it can be merged. We're had people from IETF reach out with questions about how to get in contact with editors.
[2023-03-07T18:44:19.210Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/525
[2023-03-07T18:44:39.382Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This final editor is PR 525 which adds text of the IPR note to the meeting instructions before starting a meeting.
[2023-03-07T18:44:48.870Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I support merging this, this eems worth while.
[2023-03-07T18:45:16.534Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: Those are the PR's for interop, and there are no PR's open for trace-vocab this week.
[2023-03-07T18:45:33.900Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-03-07T18:45:35.567Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think that's the first time this has happened.
[2023-03-07T18:45:41.035Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: Nis was out last week
[2023-03-07T18:45:47.430Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/481
[2023-03-07T18:45:49.952Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I suspect that had something to do with it
[2023-03-07T18:46:29.964Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This is for documentation for verification results to show what each of the results mean.
[2023-03-07T18:47:05.972Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Mahmoud had comments bout this, but I think that was a different issue. Do we have consensus that we have a specific JSON shape for what needs to be returned?
[2023-03-07T18:47:37.692Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I think I agree with that, but I'm not sure we can do that with the openAPI schema given this is an array
[2023-03-07T18:48:12.175Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think it's possible to define these in openapi specification. But i think the question is do we like the shape, because then we can address this that way.
[2023-03-07T18:48:54.324Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: We could say that the boolean verified status is the only thing that matters.
[2023-03-07T18:49:01.572Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I'm okay with that
[2023-03-07T18:49:26.525Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Let's put a comment on the issue that says, only the 'verified' boolean must be present, additionalProerties true
[2023-03-07T18:49:34.779Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: Adding label 'ready for PR'
[2023-03-07T18:50:03.500Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russell: I can do that
[2023-03-07T18:50:18.879Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
[2023-03-07T18:50:47.444Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I have yet to sit down with this, I will make additional comments, but there is no action here yet.
[2023-03-07T18:50:56.725Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/427
[2023-03-07T18:51:12.211Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This is about using did:jwk instead of using did:key
[2023-03-07T18:51:29.138Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I was on a podcast yesterday discussing did:key vs did:jwk
[2023-03-07T18:52:10.643Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think if we're using web keys, then it makes more sense to use did:jwk. But we might say that only did:web is required and the other did methods are not included in the profile
[2023-03-07T18:52:25.610Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Are we only using did:web at this point, and if that's the case we can close this
[2023-03-07T18:52:40.618Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think we can say did:key are did:jwk are not supported by the profile
[2023-03-07T18:52:59.413Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Do we need to specifically call them out and say it's not part of the profile
[2023-03-07T18:53:19.514Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I mean if it's not included in the tests, it's not part of the profile. We should leave a comment on the issue and close it.
[2023-03-07T18:53:29.586Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I will go ahead and leave a comment to that effect.
[2023-03-07T18:53:35.890Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Seems good to me, can we close it?
[2023-03-07T18:53:40.840Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: Closing it now.
[2023-03-07T18:53:47.878Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/402
[2023-03-07T18:54:12.407Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This one was created by Orie, and Nis promised us to have it done by today
[2023-03-07T18:54:30.158Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: it's on interop, but it seems like it should be on vocab, like a vocab credential that covers this first
[2023-03-07T18:54:48.704Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Oh, it's about postman. It's about support for this endpoint in the interop profile
[2023-03-07T18:55:14.760Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: This needs to be described in respec, then a postman collection to implement those tests. And then potentially there is a lot of work behind that
[2023-03-07T18:55:24.772Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: If this is just an idea, then we might just close it
[2023-03-07T18:55:49.472Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Are there any implementer on the call intended into implementing this end point?
[2023-03-07T18:55:54.549Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/359
[2023-03-07T18:55:59.233Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: If not then we should close it.
[2023-03-07T18:56:31.088Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This is opened by me. Some work has been done, we need some positive tests. But no work has been done.
[2023-03-07T18:56:44.335Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: This says that it's blocked by 468, do we want to jump to that?
[2023-03-07T18:57:19.285Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: 468 was referenced to how we reference a verifiable credential, to get status list, to get it by id because credential.id is optional.
[2023-03-07T18:57:42.319Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: We were thinking that we would make it required, but the issue is that break capability with VC-API.
[2023-03-07T18:58:18.855Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I'll dispute what Isaac is saying there. There is no way to issue a revocable credential without an id. The end point needs to have an id.
[2023-03-07T18:58:48.338Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chirs: This is about when the id is present, before or after the issue present in the request object, or the returned signed.
[2023-03-07T18:59:30.815Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: In our profile, we don't have a problem with this, because for revocable credentials you will always have an id to be able to revoke it.
[2023-03-07T18:59:54.800Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: The conformance for credential status, that should be testable without changing these
[2023-03-07T19:00:20.735Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: The reason it was dependent because we weren't sure of the shape.
[2023-03-07T19:01:05.543Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I think the result is proposal 4 where you MAY provide an id, but the server MUST return a credential with an id
[2023-03-07T19:01:21.570Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: So the server will only generate an id if it is not present already
[2023-03-07T19:01:34.801Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: Okay. I think this is ready for PR.
[2023-03-07T19:02:35.627Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I think that we want to capture that we're going with option 4, the last comment says option 6
[2023-03-07T19:03:05.165Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: Does anyone have an objection to option 4 based on the current discussion?
[2023-03-07T19:03:10.251Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	Have to drop i have a conflict
[2023-03-07T19:03:10.304Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: What was the reasoning?
[2023-03-07T19:03:29.761Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-03-07T19:04:05.684Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I think the reasoning was that we wanted a single party to be responsible for the credential.id. And as Isaac pointed out that causes a lot of problems where we go with the fallback of expecting the issuer to make an id and have the server generate one if not present.
[2023-03-07T19:04:39.298Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I think this has been addressed, so I will leave a comment to that effect.
[2023-03-07T19:04:48.928Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/483
[2023-03-07T19:04:58.640Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This one is about the shape error responsed.
[2023-03-07T19:05:37.704Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I suggest that we don't proceed that we wait for Mahmoud to proceed on this issue.
[2023-03-07T19:08:18.538Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I think I agree with the sentiment here. I think we want to define an specific http response code, or a minimal response that MUST be there, and then vendors implement what's better for their customers on top of that with respect to error messages.
[2023-03-07T19:08:47.969Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/438
[2023-03-07T19:09:19.648Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: The downside of that is that if we want to have conformance for something to fail for a specific reason. But we might way that we expect a 400 and as long as we get that we're okay
[2023-03-07T19:09:29.902Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/453
[2023-03-07T19:10:05.687Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This one is to say the expected response is a JSON object, but it might be a JWT. I have not done anything with this, it is still on my todo list.
[2023-03-07T19:10:08.688Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/460
[2023-03-07T19:10:49.626Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This is about adding postman information into the respec. I think that Orie and Mahmoud want this in the respec document, but I want some guidance on where and how that should be represented.
[2023-03-07T19:11:03.366Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Isn't this adding a section? Does it matter where it sits?
[2023-03-07T19:11:27.485Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I haven't written much of the respec document, so I want to have a little feedback before going in blind.
[2023-03-07T19:11:43.843Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I can take a stab at this and people could yell at me in comments on  the PR.
[2023-03-07T19:11:59.775Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I agree with that approach, do what you think is the least bad, and then it's easy to move around
[2023-03-07T19:12:01.397Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/464
[2023-03-07T19:12:42.202Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: The workflows have these big american badges on them. I got a comment that these were American-centric. The issue was about making it more generic.
[2023-03-07T19:13:10.954Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: The ISF is a good example of workflows. Maybe i can run down the 'MURICA feel, and then keep the ISF example.
[2023-03-07T19:13:30.938Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: That sounds fine to me, I don't want to lose the example, and we swap out the graphics.
[2023-03-07T19:13:41.194Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/457
[2023-03-07T19:14:13.513Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: This one is related to using OAuth with Azure as Azure enforces naming different from the scopes that we use
[2023-03-07T19:14:46.464Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: That means that no-one using Azure can implement the spec. Nis wanted Microsoft to weigh in before making any changes.
[2023-03-07T19:16:06.215Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: generally with m2m OAuth, when you auth, you get all of the scopes available to you. We had to do some manipulation to see what happens when you are missing scopes. The test would lose granularity, but we would need to remove a few tests for specific scopes.
[2023-03-07T19:16:34.103Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: The tactic was to get Microsoft involved, and say, "we'll put a bad label on you", but that doesn't seem to have gotten their attention.
[2023-03-07T19:16:53.742Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: My suggestion would be to make another attempt to get them to interact on this again.
[2023-03-07T19:17:19.657Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: How should we reach out to them, or should we implement Orie's suggestion of adding a warning around using Azure?
[2023-03-07T19:18:10.105Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: We need to decide what that says, if we say "you can't use Azure-AD if you want to issue verifiable credentials" that's a line in the sand that I'm not sure I want to cross.
[2023-03-07T19:18:25.190Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Let's leave a comment to Orie to ask him to reach out again.
[2023-03-07T19:18:46.089Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/485
[2023-03-07T19:23:27.976Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: This is saying that  that we want to be able to have a way to show intent for documents that have been sent in error, or that need to be amended and how we address that over the wire.
[2023-03-07T19:24:14.968Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe-
[2023-03-07T19:24:58.266Z]	<nis>	present+
