[2021-06-29T19:58:14.311Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-06-29T19:58:14.312Z]	<Justin_Richer>	present+
[2021-06-29T19:58:58.721Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:00:18.112Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner_[cel]>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:00:26.371Z]	<Mike_Varley>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:00:27.639Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:00:36.849Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:01:02.420Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:01:07.712Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:01:46.398Z]	<Brian>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:01:48.868Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:01:53.601Z]	<Butch_Clark>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:02:59.162Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:03:47.552Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:04:15.174Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:05:06.784Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:06:06.709Z]	<cel>	scribe: cel
[2021-06-29T20:06:13.387Z]	<manu>	Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2021-06-29T20:06:20.839Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	hey andrew!
[2021-06-29T20:06:32.213Z]	<IdentityWoman>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:06:42.248Z]	<cel>	Andrew_Hughes: most of you know me already, i'm returning from distant shores of the internet, starting to pay more attention to the w3c work again, glad to hear today's topic
[2021-06-29T20:07:27.896Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	Hi everyone! Glad to be back and seeing what's been happening over the last year
[2021-06-29T20:07:30.894Z]	<cel>	IdentityWoman: Hi, I haven't come to this call before. My handle is IdentityWoman; I currently have a formal job role with Linux Foundation, ... also Good Health Group, Trusted Health Pass
[2021-06-29T20:07:37.544Z]	<Orie>	Hey David!
[2021-06-29T20:07:53.834Z]	<cel>	DavidC: I've had some change of jobs. Company bought out by Crosswords Cybersecurity, now working for them
[2021-06-29T20:08:19.285Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:08:19.723Z]	<manu>	Topic: Use Cases
[2021-06-29T20:08:28.852Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit#
[2021-06-29T20:08:31.516Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:08:34.127Z]	<cel>	manu: Any updates, Eric or Juan on use cases?
[2021-06-29T20:08:34.238Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:09:26.414Z]	<cel>	EricSchuh: we are about half way through the scheduled initial triage. Expect to have initial set of use cases. If anyone wants to add anything new, feel free to. If adding something substantial, ping myself or Juan on the Google Doc or comment.
[2021-06-29T20:09:21.948Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	contact me via eric@legreq.com
[2021-06-29T20:09:49.533Z]	<Sanuja_(Diwala)>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:10:01.019Z]	<cel>	Juan: The two uses cases that might not make it into the Doc.... separation of concerns use case, different from others...
[2021-06-29T20:10:14.310Z]	<cel>	... And I'm trying to fool around with a car identity one for fun. Please leave comments if interested
[2021-06-29T20:10:36.111Z]	<cel>	manu: This is a first pass, It doesn't mean if not in then it won't get it, Just want to iterate over next couple of years
[2021-06-29T20:10:46.462Z]	<cel>	... Other questions and concerns about use cases before main event?
[2021-06-29T20:10:49.907Z]	<Orie>	/me shudders at couple of years...
[2021-06-29T20:11:10.967Z]	<manu>	Topic: Authorization and RAR Presentation
[2021-06-29T20:11:31.824Z]	<cel>	manu: As many of you know, we've been having a long discussion about Authorization.
[2021-06-29T20:11:43.295Z]	<cel>	... Last week Justin offered to take us through RAR and other technologies in the space.
[2021-06-29T20:12:05.939Z]	<cel>	... We are hoping to get education for the group, in order to make concrete decisions about how to approach authorization in VC HTTP API over next few months or longer
[2021-06-29T20:12:08.702Z]	<Justin_Richer>	https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-gnap-core-protocol-05.html

https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-oauth-rar-05.html
[2021-06-29T20:12:14.234Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:12:34.073Z]	<manu>	Slides for this presentation: https://www.slideshare.net/zeronine1/rar-and-gnap-for-vc-http-api
[2021-06-29T20:12:34.073Z]	<manu>	Video recording for this presentation: https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-vchttpapi-2021-06-29.mp4
[2021-06-29T20:12:22.305Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Thanks very much, I'll start by dropping some things in chat. ^
[2021-06-29T20:12:34.073Z]	<cel>	justin_r apologies to scribe for speed
[2021-06-29T20:12:57.197Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Hi, my name is Justin Richer, I'm in an independent consultant based in Boston, but not speaking on behalf of clients
[2021-06-29T20:13:29.314Z]	<cel>	... I'm hear to speak about efforts I'm involved in that have overlap with vc-http-api: RAR and GNAP; i'm a co-editor on each, and a bunch of other things over last number of years in standards space.
[2021-06-29T20:13:44.588Z]	<cel>	... A note about branding: the name of this WG is an absolute mouthful. Can we come up with a logo?
[2021-06-29T20:13:45.361Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	I love the logo :)
[2021-06-29T20:13:56.269Z]	<cel>	... shows VH logo
[2021-06-29T20:14:00.464Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:14:11.675Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	/me hums "panama" under his breath
[2021-06-29T20:14:16.541Z]	<cel>	... GNAP: think about what you love about OAUTH2, throw out things we don't want, that's the idea of GNAP. Standard track
[2021-06-29T20:14:28.948Z]	<cel>	... RAR: rich authoriation requests, backport of .... to OAuth2
[2021-06-29T20:14:48.415Z]	<cel>	... Think of it like Scope in Oauth2... also a part of a ... working group, in last call right now
[2021-06-29T20:15:15.497Z]	<cel>	... Interesting synergy: GNAP not compatible with Oath2, or intended to, but since GNAP uses same data structures, can use same descriptions if using RAR
[2021-06-29T20:15:36.287Z]	<cel>	... Using either GNAP or OAuth2 does not require specific token format: separation of concerns
[2021-06-29T20:15:55.473Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:15:56.367Z]	<cel>	... Where's RAR used today? Been in production for a while in a number of places. A small slice I was able to get...
[2021-06-29T20:15:59.852Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:16:05.495Z]	<cel>	slide 7
[2021-06-29T20:16:35.666Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Interesting that has momentum. People tried to add structures to OAuth scope strings; RAR gives you a way to do it without all the weird parsing and semantic layering of those systems.
[2021-06-29T20:16:44.745Z]	<cel>	... Groups looking to switch to RAR to describe access to their APIs
[2021-06-29T20:17:02.150Z]	<cel>	... Why we're here today: Fundamental question: where/how to use vc-http-api with auth delegation protocols
[2021-06-29T20:17:13.433Z]	<cel>	... What authorization and delegation protocol looks like...
[2021-06-29T20:17:30.531Z]	<cel>	... Three places with clear overlaps between these two efforts
[2021-06-29T20:17:45.051Z]	<cel>	... Ability to present things about user without having to go through web page like Oauth does
[2021-06-29T20:17:59.838Z]	<cel>	... Ongoing question: if presented with VC, how to figure out what it's for. How to validate?
[2021-06-29T20:18:10.580Z]	<cel>	... Today: my proposal only relates to: the green box (slide 10)
[2021-06-29T20:18:14.116Z]	<cel>	... What is being requested.
[2021-06-29T20:18:26.861Z]	<cel>	... Each of these puts the API in a different place. Reason why the conversation is confusing
[2021-06-29T20:18:44.963Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	yep. role confusion makes this hard.
[2021-06-29T20:18:45.192Z]	<cel>	... People are talking about applications of the vc-http-api and delegation protocols, about using it in different ways; they are separate layers, separate places in the ecosystem
[2021-06-29T20:19:00.518Z]	<cel>	... Need to solve, but not same answer everywhere all the time
[2021-06-29T20:19:10.397Z]	<cel>	... What is being requested: how do you describe what you want to do at the API
[2021-06-29T20:19:20.422Z]	<Nikos_Fotiou>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:19:23.190Z]	<cel>	... OAuth 1: on or off: got access or not. No way to say run at configure time.
[2021-06-29T20:19:40.041Z]	<cel>	... Oauth 2: list of on/off flags: scopes. Have scope or not. Then people invented different structures for scope values.
[2021-06-29T20:20:03.348Z]	<cel>	... We collected and codified to make a rich object, core of GNAP, which has been backported to OAuth2 as RAR.
[2021-06-29T20:20:26.937Z]	<cel>	... Turns out what people use scopes for go in different directions: read access, payments, ...: all get described as scopes
[2021-06-29T20:20:33.664Z]	<cel>	... Combinatoric explosion when have single flat list.
[2021-06-29T20:20:50.970Z]	<cel>	... RAR gives you a structure to describe these things. It's a JSON array (like in OAuth2) but filled with objects
[2021-06-29T20:21:00.222Z]	<cel>	... Equivalent concept in GNAP is same object.
[2021-06-29T20:21:05.225Z]	<cel>	slide 16
[2021-06-29T20:21:20.121Z]	<cel>	... This is a really good way to solve this with a low lift. Not that big.
[2021-06-29T20:21:32.379Z]	<cel>	... Each part of this request means something different. The type: kind of API you are calling.
[2021-06-29T20:21:57.231Z]	<cel>	... Authorization server may protect many APIs with different semantics. Even VC HTTP API is not a single API but a collection of different APIs for doing different things. That's why the type property.
[2021-06-29T20:22:15.594Z]	<cel>	... Then we have what you are doing. But since JSON, can extend with whatever you want.
[2021-06-29T20:22:34.249Z]	<cel>	... If you understand the string, you can understand it.
[2021-06-29T20:22:37.578Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-06-29T20:22:44.316Z]	<cel>	... Has to lead back to human-layer semantic understanding of systems.
[2021-06-29T20:22:57.799Z]	<cel>	... The RAR type is the key that determines what goes into the rest of the API
[2021-06-29T20:23:24.549Z]	<cel>	... This is not @context or schema, do not need to fetch. Even though URL-based, that is for namespace purposes only. Either you recognize the string or not.
[2021-06-29T20:23:40.141Z]	<cel>	manu: Is the expectation that if we use RAR, then this group ...
[2021-06-29T20:23:43.516Z]	<cel>	justin_r: That's the next slide
[2021-06-29T20:24:00.151Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Proposal is that this WG defines a set of types... how to access the API, in OAuth2 and GNAP.
[2021-06-29T20:24:03.640Z]	<cel>	slide 19
[2021-06-29T20:24:42.966Z]	<cel>	justin_r: This is the total of what I am proposing that this group do. Not that you have to use OAuth2 or GNAP or even have to use these; you could use your own scope values, just wouldn't be following the interop protocol.
[2021-06-29T20:24:53.735Z]	<cel>	... It makes sense to define the API and security model side-by-side
[2021-06-29T20:25:01.450Z]	<cel>	... It makes you define what you're accessing and how you're accessing it.
[2021-06-29T20:25:13.632Z]	<cel>	... Better to grow them together, the security model while you're defining the API
[2021-06-29T20:25:31.656Z]	<cel>	... Rather than trying to decide later ("what is is that we do?") - and has to be done eventually.
[2021-06-29T20:25:36.015Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-06-29T20:25:48.694Z]	<identitywoman>	straw people!
[2021-06-29T20:25:48.885Z]	<cel>	... Now for strawman proposals for a lite take on what this could look.
[2021-06-29T20:25:57.626Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2021-06-29T20:26:00.274Z]	<cel>	... If you are going into field values, you're missing the point
[2021-06-29T20:26:09.417Z]	<cel>	... Want to see how you could apply the RAR data structures to an API like this.
[2021-06-29T20:26:12.466Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mprorock
[2021-06-29T20:26:35.948Z]	<cel>	mprorock: question about "you all" this community defining and implementing this stuff. Are you proposing to lead this work defining this stuff, or what's your vision here?
[2021-06-29T20:26:39.890Z]	<cel>	justin_r: I'm not
[2021-06-29T20:27:09.508Z]	<cel>	... I'm trying to connect the dots for this community. I can definitely contribute to this, but not that I am going to come in and insist that this group do or on a particular solution. Not the purpose of this presentation
[2021-06-29T20:27:18.223Z]	<cel>	mprorock: thank you
[2021-06-29T20:27:18.254Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-06-29T20:27:35.613Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Straw man (people) proposals. Try not to get tied up in the details.
[2021-06-29T20:28:00.887Z]	<cel>	... Different parts of the ecosystems: Five main access types: I call them issue, verify, construct, fetch, and present.
[2021-06-29T20:28:18.485Z]	<cel>	... Issuing a credential: want to differentiate between asking someone to create something, or take something and sign it.
[2021-06-29T20:28:56.151Z]	<cel>	... There are already multiple dimensions for a type like this. The type that talks about vc-http-api's "issue" action; and then there are multiple actions: if something asks for both, I could limit; or limit to particular server location
[2021-06-29T20:29:07.013Z]	<cel>	... Likely other dimensions to all of these, including some specific to VC HTTP API.
[2021-06-29T20:29:13.387Z]	<cel>	... That is the type of stuff this group ought to be defininig.
[2021-06-29T20:29:34.236Z]	<cel>	... Verification API: looking to verify something, the presentation and its content. May have different rights associated with them.
[2021-06-29T20:29:38.710Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:29:59.842Z]	<cel>	... It's important to look at the API and slice up the different levels(?) of access people might ask for in different ways.
[2021-06-29T20:30:52.458Z]	<cel>	... Construction: when asking people to do construction step, might ask someone to disclosure particular fields. Disclosures are not defined by GNAP but would be by this group. No need for a schema, but designed to be scoped to the particular API being protected. Lots of flexibility for how to describe access to things.
[2021-06-29T20:31:11.867Z]	<cel>	... Presentation: what are the things I'm allowed to present; credential, presentation.
[2021-06-29T20:31:28.986Z]	<Orie>	here is an example of "older" style scopes...
[2021-06-29T20:31:29.777Z]	<Orie>	https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/scopes
[2021-06-29T20:31:49.572Z]	<cel>	... I'm not expecting details of this to be accurate, but expect you to see: VC HTTP API work: different things I want people to be able to do, and how to differentiate
[2021-06-29T20:32:10.639Z]	<Orie>	q+ to ask about order of engineering work typically
[2021-06-29T20:32:13.932Z]	<cel>	... Recmmending WG adopt this work, define types, say what are the dimensions needed and what do they mean. ... Add normative type definitions to the document.
[2021-06-29T20:32:37.782Z]	<cel>	... Say e.g. the API must be protected by an authentication technology applicable to VC HTTP API - don't leave it open - if authorization is appropriate
[2021-06-29T20:32:58.251Z]	<cel>	... Say recommend protocol like GNAP for specific endpoints; list out the fields and what they mean.
[2021-06-29T20:33:12.615Z]	<cel>	... People understand OAuth, could use that to protect their thing.
[2021-06-29T20:33:33.130Z]	<cel>	... Someone else could use MTLS: go ahead, that's still protected, perfectly legitimate.
[2021-06-29T20:33:53.492Z]	<cel>	... This I think is the key limiting factor lost in the conversation before. Not saying you must use GNAP, nor that we should be solving the whole rest of the authorization problem.
[2021-06-29T20:34:11.450Z]	<cel>	... Email to list earlier this week had questions like "what is the lifecycle of this token": put out of scope; not in the concern of the API being protected
[2021-06-29T20:34:23.808Z]	<cel>	... But API should be able to describe how to ask for access to it, using standard technologies.
[2021-06-29T20:34:36.123Z]	<cel>	... I believe it's a very light lift, as already describing anyway
[2021-06-29T20:35:00.155Z]	<cel>	... And beneficial to people who would like an interoperabile security layer(?) on this API.
[2021-06-29T20:35:02.327Z]	<cel>	... End of presentation
[2021-06-29T20:35:08.279Z]	<TallTed>	sorry; came in late; link to deck?
[2021-06-29T20:35:17.538Z]	<cel>	orie: I agree, especially about out of scope. Huge +1
[2021-06-29T20:35:41.459Z]	<cel>	... Diagram showing people putting VC HTTP API in different places. It's worse as we we haven't really defined what this API is. My question for folks who successfully implemented RAR...
[2021-06-29T20:35:49.212Z]	<cel>	... I wonder if you have an opinion on the best way it should play out
[2021-06-29T20:36:01.652Z]	<cel>	... Should define a restful API and then define the RAR permissions scopes for it? Or define the scopes and then the API?
[2021-06-29T20:36:11.606Z]	<cel>	... If scopes refer to API, can't you not define scopes before API?
[2021-06-29T20:36:25.719Z]	<cel>	... I could see building both at same time, or API and then scopes later. Which yields better outcome?
[2021-06-29T20:36:36.317Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Defining them together. So you can refine both sides as they grow up.
[2021-06-29T20:36:39.332Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to see if proposals on current slide could be done
[2021-06-29T20:36:44.849Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack orie
[2021-06-29T20:36:51.024Z]	<cel>	... As you said, this group is still getting its edges defined about what is the VC HTTP API
[2021-06-29T20:37:04.338Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	q?
[2021-06-29T20:37:09.635Z]	<cel>	... Good time to ask: is this a different... type of access, or is it subsumed by something else?
[2021-06-29T20:37:17.435Z]	<cel>	... Allows you to take an iterative approach
[2021-06-29T20:37:29.280Z]	<cel>	... Other reason: people will need to define it somewhere, to deploy
[2021-06-29T20:37:29.413Z]	<TallTed>	q+ to request link to deck
[2021-06-29T20:37:53.971Z]	<cel>	... People would build different things slightly incompatible about actions. i.e. some may say issue and sign are the same thing, but it may be an important differentiation to someone else
[2021-06-29T20:38:04.753Z]	<cel>	... Conversation might not happen until after people already put down stakes
[2021-06-29T20:38:04.753Z]	<cel>	Topic: RAR Q&A
[2021-06-29T20:38:07.393Z]	<Orie>	+1 I generally agree.
[2021-06-29T20:38:11.028Z]	<cel>	... If you don't do it now, it will happen later
[2021-06-29T20:38:33.410Z]	<cel>	... People will try to shuffle it out somehow, whether or not this group does it, but won't be as good if this group does not design the security layer.
[2021-06-29T20:38:46.129Z]	<cel>	manu: Current slide (11): question to group: I think it's a really good way to frame what's in scope
[2021-06-29T20:38:52.520Z]	<cel>	... Green box in scope, Yellow/purple out
[2021-06-29T20:38:59.002Z]	<cel>	... I would like to see if we can pass those resolutions today
[2021-06-29T20:39:13.983Z]	<cel>	... Question to rest of group: if we pass today saying yellow box out of scope, purple box out of scope, would anyone object?
[2021-06-29T20:39:28.107Z]	<cel>	Joe: we need to define other than colors
[2021-06-29T20:39:28.418Z]	<Orie>	+1 joe
[2021-06-29T20:39:37.041Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	/me objects on behalf of the colorblind and blind listeners :D
[2021-06-29T20:39:42.467Z]	<TallTed>	I don't grok the boxes sufficiently to say yes or no
[2021-06-29T20:39:46.157Z]	<cel>	manu: we will; basically interactions between authorization server and resource server - out of scope
[2021-06-29T20:40:03.730Z]	<mprorock>	q+ question on auth services supporting rar?
[2021-06-29T20:40:06.779Z]	<cel>	justin_r: If I may try to categorize that: something I've been trying to convince this group of for a bit: the orange box represents VCs presented to an Authorization server.
[2021-06-29T20:40:19.902Z]	<cel>	... Purple box represents VCs presented to an RS that the RS (Resource Server) needs to make sense of
[2021-06-29T20:40:28.236Z]	<cel>	... Green box represents accessing the VC HTTP API, by something.
[2021-06-29T20:40:34.131Z]	<mprorock>	I am going to point out that this is not really how we use VCs all on our side
[2021-06-29T20:40:44.669Z]	<cel>	... Protection of access to the VC HTTP API itself ought to be in scope for this group to handle in an interoperable fashion
[2021-06-29T20:40:54.719Z]	<Kevin_[Spruce_Systems]>	present+
[2021-06-29T20:40:57.689Z]	<Orie>	green box is clearly in scope.... other boxes appear generally out of scope.
[2021-06-29T20:40:59.877Z]	<cel>	manu: Got it. If you can figure out how to put that into concrete text for a proposal, that would be helpful
[2021-06-29T20:41:03.127Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-06-29T20:41:07.723Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2021-06-29T20:41:08.131Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Did scribe right it down? That's what I thought I was doing
[2021-06-29T20:41:12.070Z]	<cel>	s/right/write/
[2021-06-29T20:41:19.046Z]	<cel>	TallTed: I'm hoping to get a link to the deck
[2021-06-29T20:41:25.895Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Not hosted online, sorry
[2021-06-29T20:41:29.205Z]	<cel>	TallTed: Could it be?
[2021-06-29T20:41:32.066Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Possible
[2021-06-29T20:41:37.254Z]	<cel>	identitywoman: you could watch the video
[2021-06-29T20:41:50.231Z]	<cel>	justin_r: I did not write this as a leave-behind artifact.
[2021-06-29T20:41:54.135Z]	<cel>	... Without the audio, much is missing
[2021-06-29T20:42:02.695Z]	<cel>	TallTed: Video will cover it.
[2021-06-29T20:42:10.287Z]	<mprorock>	+1 ted
[2021-06-29T20:42:10.694Z]	<cel>	... I won't be able to vote, there is a lot of hand-wave
[2021-06-29T20:42:14.407Z]	<cel>	manu: Objection to proposal?
[2021-06-29T20:42:24.273Z]	<cel>	TallTed: At this point, yes. It would need to be better defined.
[2021-06-29T20:42:32.913Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	+1
[2021-06-29T20:42:33.571Z]	<cel>	manu: One thing we could do is put it to the mailing list
[2021-06-29T20:42:40.190Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	scribest with the mostest
[2021-06-29T20:42:49.967Z]	<Orie>	PROPOSAL: another entire call dedicated ONLY to green box.
[2021-06-29T20:43:16.587Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	q?
[2021-06-29T20:43:22.648Z]	<Orie>	+1 Justin to keep talking about ONLY green box
[2021-06-29T20:43:22.890Z]	<cel>	justin_r: To follow on Orie's comment, I'm saying the green box should be the topic of a call and for the working group as many calls as it takes
[2021-06-29T20:43:32.912Z]	<cel>	manu: We just need to get resolutions down
[2021-06-29T20:43:55.163Z]	<cel>	... Trying to make sure we have everyone onboard so we don't just talk about the yellow/orange box and just talk about the green one, to put the debate to rest and move on.
[2021-06-29T20:44:03.185Z]	<Justin_Richer>	Proposal: It is in scope to define a means of describing access to the VC HTTP API, using RAR/GNAP.
[2021-06-29T20:44:13.997Z]	<cel>	... Up to you, if you want to put a proposal, TallTed may object, but we could discuss on mailing list
[2021-06-29T20:44:23.046Z]	<cel>	manu: there is one in there ^
[2021-06-29T20:44:50.257Z]	<Orie>	q+ to ask about RAR/GNAP green box
[2021-06-29T20:44:59.472Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack ted
[2021-06-29T20:45:02.578Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack tallted
[2021-06-29T20:45:06.341Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mprorock
[2021-06-29T20:45:07.244Z]	<TallTed>	+1 to mailing list discussion. And to scope clarity! I just don't quite grok what's here.
[2021-06-29T20:45:10.591Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	q+ to ask about `disclosures` object in example (if time allows)
[2021-06-29T20:45:42.963Z]	<cel>	mprorock: clarifying point, about banks using RAR, thinking about practical life and dealing with my customers... Of the major providers for Oauth2 - Okta, Ping(?), etc., who are using it out of the box?
[2021-06-29T20:45:49.408Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack orie
[2021-06-29T20:45:51.040Z]	<cel>	justin_r: I don't have an answer, am not a salesman or an integrator
[2021-06-29T20:45:54.333Z]	<Justin_Richer>	Proposal: it is out of scope (for now) to define a means for an authorization server to request, accept, or process the VC HTTP API.
[2021-06-29T20:45:54.518Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-06-29T20:46:25.103Z]	<mprorock>	What about:  "It is in scope to define a means of describing access to the VC HTTP API"
[2021-06-29T20:46:25.936Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+
[2021-06-29T20:46:28.903Z]	<cel>	Orie: green box: initial proposal said RAR/GNAP. As I understand this green box, it's about using RAR to get an access token "scope" correctly, then passing the token to a resource server...
[2021-06-29T20:46:52.849Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Not that much; it's about describing how to get the access token, and how to access what's described in it
[2021-06-29T20:47:00.431Z]	<cel>	Orie: lower part...
[2021-06-29T20:47:10.001Z]	<cel>	justin_r: ... Not saying specify that...
[2021-06-29T20:47:24.926Z]	<cel>	Orie: This is VC HTTP API, one place to put access token is in headers
[2021-06-29T20:47:41.298Z]	<cel>	justin_r: VC HTTP API could say that; there are a bunch of ways to present access tokens and their equivalents
[2021-06-29T20:48:13.753Z]	<cel>	Orie: That area is probably less controversal. If trying to break it down for folks on call or mailing list... In my opinion, concern is about the top arrow, that's where all the pain and confusion is.
[2021-06-29T20:48:21.256Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-06-29T20:48:26.010Z]	<Justin_Richer>	Proposal: it is out of scope to define a mechanism to use the VC HTTP API to prove access to a given RS.
[2021-06-29T20:48:34.555Z]	<cel>	... This bottom arrow is typically a standard thing; in HTTP, in DIDComm, how you use it is covered conventionally
[2021-06-29T20:48:40.220Z]	<cel>	... How you get that is covered by RAR?
[2021-06-29T20:48:55.828Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Incorrect. The mechanism of getting the token and of using the token are defined by Oauth2 and by GNAP.
[2021-06-29T20:49:12.037Z]	<cel>	... The mechanism of describing what you want that token to be able to do is the one small piece that I am suggesting this group work on.
[2021-06-29T20:49:36.849Z]	<Orie>	PROPOSAL: The vc-http-api will use OAuth2.0 + RAR
[2021-06-29T20:49:58.984Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Then what's the format of the token? What's in the token? I don't care, and neither should the spec say anything about it. It should be deliberately opaque to this specification; obviously not to a particular deployment, but for this specification I don't care.
[2021-06-29T20:50:27.083Z]	<cel>	... The only thing is that I have software that knows how to call VC HTTP API; it knows what it wants to do and wants to ask for permission to do that. How do you encode the rights in a set of actions in a request?
[2021-06-29T20:50:35.897Z]	<Orie>	There are 2 options here... OAuth2.0 + RAR or OAuth2.0 + Scopes
[2021-06-29T20:50:44.527Z]	<cel>	... RAR does not tell you how to get an access token, but says a way to describe what it ought to be good for.
[2021-06-29T20:50:45.314Z]	<Orie>	we already resolved not to mention gnap iirc
[2021-06-29T20:50:53.642Z]	<Orie>	q?
[2021-06-29T20:50:55.615Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Does that clear things up? It's a very narrow thing I'm proposing
[2021-06-29T20:50:58.731Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack Juan
[2021-06-29T20:51:10.720Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie - question is really around scopes or RAR
[2021-06-29T20:51:19.171Z]	<Justin_Richer>	RAR == scopes
[2021-06-29T20:51:19.975Z]	<Orie>	correct, imo
[2021-06-29T20:51:23.448Z]	<Justin_Richer>	I;'m trying to make that point!
[2021-06-29T20:51:48.803Z]	<cel>	Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce): I was wondering... in the examples you mentioned disclosures as an example of an API-specific object, you said it's in a registry but it wasn't clear... Are you proposing that per API this spec would include optional or mandatory definitions of what disclosures or other types of info specific to VC HTTP API that could optionally be in the token?
[2021-06-29T20:52:04.104Z]	<cel>	... Is that something this group could say... if it's this kind of use case, use this kind of disclosure? Is there a table we could right?
[2021-06-29T20:52:04.444Z]	<TallTed>	Will this be OpenAPI spec'able? Or is this forcing human interpretation and no machine discoverability/operationality?
[2021-06-29T20:52:07.108Z]	<Orie>	https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/scopes <- this isn't rar right?
[2021-06-29T20:52:14.253Z]	<cel>	justin_r: It could, that's what I'm trying to say.
[2021-06-29T20:52:25.185Z]	<Orie>	hence my point, not helpful to call "RAR" === "Scopes"
[2021-06-29T20:52:30.968Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	i DO love multidimensional giant tables!
[2021-06-29T20:52:31.289Z]	<mprorock>	q-
[2021-06-29T20:52:34.254Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q-
[2021-06-29T20:52:41.251Z]	<cel>	... When I've done work like this in the past, we had giant tables of OAuth2 scopes, about health sensitivities and other stuff we had to spell out... because we were writing to a specific API.
[2021-06-29T20:52:42.804Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	q+
[2021-06-29T20:52:54.717Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mprorock
[2021-06-29T20:52:59.730Z]	<cel>	... This group has the opportunity to try to write for a specific API rather than try to patch it in later. Much preferable.
[2021-06-29T20:52:59.830Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-06-29T20:53:02.130Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie - https://developers.google.com/identity/protocols/oauth2/scopes is what most of us writing commercial software
[2021-06-29T20:53:02.336Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack juan
[2021-06-29T20:53:30.387Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to ask Adrian -- what variation of this addresses your concerns?
[2021-06-29T20:53:40.605Z]	<Orie>	imagine a world where enterprises use OAuth2.0 + scopes today.
[2021-06-29T20:53:41.316Z]	<cel>	Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce): I find this all very interesting, just wondering if there some sort of fallback or equivalent for how a table written for RAR could be encoded in say scope strings or something else people don't like?
[2021-06-29T20:53:51.589Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Yes, lots of bad ways to do that, I've implemented and deployed pretty much all of them
[2021-06-29T20:53:52.834Z]	<mprorock>	lol @orie
[2021-06-29T20:53:52.939Z]	<Mike_Varley>	@orie the google ref; no, that looks like an implementation using rigid strings, that RAR looks ro address with an expression language. (my 3s interpretation)
[2021-06-29T20:54:08.191Z]	<Orie>	q+ to ask about what is in the market
[2021-06-29T20:54:20.459Z]	<cel>	... I've seen people do fully articulated URLs as scoep strings, hierarchical scope strings, JSON objects as scope strings.
[2021-06-29T20:54:24.222Z]	<TallTed>	q+ to ask Will this be OpenAPI spec'able? Or is this forcing human interpretation and no machine discoverability/operationality?
[2021-06-29T20:54:29.486Z]	<cel>	... The question is whether you need the ... in the first place
[2021-06-29T20:54:33.470Z]	<Orie>	RAR = Fancy Scope Strings.
[2021-06-29T20:54:46.687Z]	<cel>	... Every single object in RAR could be represnted by a scope; that's where the combinatorics blows up.
[2021-06-29T20:55:04.039Z]	<cel>	... Say you want to be able to ask for read access in one location and read/write in another location. How to tie them together?
[2021-06-29T20:55:15.276Z]	<cel>	... RAR gives you the framing structures to be able to say I want read here and read/write here.
[2021-06-29T20:55:16.827Z]	<Orie>	I try :)
[2021-06-29T20:55:18.278Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-06-29T20:55:28.045Z]	<cel>	... Yes, RAR is fancy scope strings. That's the correct takeaway.
[2021-06-29T20:55:32.515Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	thanks for that answer! helpful
[2021-06-29T20:55:35.348Z]	<Orie>	what if we decide to use OAuth2.0 + Scopes
[2021-06-29T20:55:38.684Z]	<Orie>	but all our scopes
[2021-06-29T20:55:45.173Z]	<Orie>	are JSON.stringify(RAR)
[2021-06-29T20:55:46.730Z]	<Justin_Richer>	Orie no
[2021-06-29T20:55:51.854Z]	<Orie>	:p
[2021-06-29T20:55:52.209Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	Orie stop it
[2021-06-29T20:55:57.052Z]	<Mike_Varley>	lol
[2021-06-29T20:55:58.593Z]	<cel>	manu: Adrian, what variation of this removes your objection? If we were to adopt something, e.g. Oauth2 and RAR, would you feel comfortable with us addressing the delegation and attenuate use cases?
[2021-06-29T20:56:05.857Z]	<cel>	agropper: no, this has nothing to do with my objection.
[2021-06-29T20:56:08.776Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2021-06-29T20:56:10.180Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-06-29T20:56:16.417Z]	<TallTed>	"RAR = Fancy Scope Strings" -- are those *strings* or can they be URIs or whatever else?
[2021-06-29T20:56:17.472Z]	<mprorock>	let's just json.stringify everything
[2021-06-29T20:56:31.815Z]	<Orie>	cut me :)
[2021-06-29T20:56:37.102Z]	<cel>	... I think this is a fabulous idea. With the HART(?) WG (which UI was also in) - I know where the bodies are buried, maybe from a different perspective than Justin, but this does not address that
[2021-06-29T20:56:56.408Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Adrian, this is why I was trying to make it clear with the different boxes. I think the things you have brought up are firmly within the purple box.
[2021-06-29T20:57:03.546Z]	<cel>	... I get this VC thing and want to use the API...
[2021-06-29T20:57:20.372Z]	<cel>	... or... I want to take actions to get stuff. Separating these concerns is the first step to addressing them.
[2021-06-29T20:57:41.774Z]	<cel>	... Whether in this WG or not is a separate question. But need to call these out and put boundaries around them so that people are not talking past eachother
[2021-06-29T20:57:55.660Z]	<agropper>	+1 that my concerns could be addressed elsewhere if we keep OAuth out of VC HTTP API
[2021-06-29T20:58:06.251Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-06-29T20:58:08.356Z]	<cel>	... I think all of these boxes are important. Personally think the orange box is far more interesting. But doesn't mean it's the right forum for solving this specific issue. That means we have to find that forum to have that conversation.
[2021-06-29T20:58:12.977Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack orie
[2021-06-29T20:58:17.044Z]	<Orie>	q-
[2021-06-29T20:58:33.854Z]	<cel>	TallTed: RAR is fancy scope strings: are those just strings or can be URIs?
[2021-06-29T20:58:40.661Z]	<cel>	justin_r: They are JSON objects.
[2021-06-29T20:58:42.511Z]	<Orie>	hence my joke about stringifying them :)
[2021-06-29T20:58:52.372Z]	<cel>	... I was responding to ... glibness.
[2021-06-29T20:58:54.669Z]	<mprorock>	agropper - oauth is in the real world - we have to use oauth and are using it already with the vc-http-api
[2021-06-29T20:59:05.334Z]	<cel>	TallTed: everything I saw had just keywords, not appearing to expand into URIs
[2021-06-29T20:59:10.325Z]	<cel>	justin_r: It doesn't, I didn't say it would
[2021-06-29T20:59:22.102Z]	<cel>	TallTed: My concern: appears to not be machine-addressable
[2021-06-29T20:59:34.170Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Correct, that's a design goal; intentional
[2021-06-29T20:59:40.947Z]	<Orie>	Ted ask him if he likes linked data... :)
[2021-06-29T20:59:42.161Z]	<Butch_Clark>	Thanks Justin - Very imformative
[2021-06-29T20:59:47.593Z]	<cel>	manu: Thank you Justin for taking the time to put together this presentation for this group
[2021-06-29T20:59:51.059Z]	<Justin_Richer>	thank you for the scribe! I know I am very quick
[2021-06-29T20:59:51.197Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	thanks! this really helps
[2021-06-29T20:59:56.077Z]	<Mahmoud>	Thanks justin that was great!
[2021-06-29T20:59:57.001Z]	<Orie>	Thanks justin, this was excellent.
[2021-06-29T20:59:57.398Z]	<Mike_Varley>	Thanks scribe! well done. And thank-you Justin.
[2021-06-29T20:59:58.018Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	and CEL OMG
[2021-06-29T20:59:58.557Z]	<cel>	manu: thanks scribe. Thanks everyone.
[2021-06-29T21:00:15.651Z]	<Brian>	Thanks Justin
[2021-06-29T21:00:16.864Z]	<cel>	... Let's take it to the mailing list. A number of concrete proposals we could put to the mailing list.
[2021-06-29T21:00:24.762Z]	<cel>	... Hopefully folks got an idea of what using RAR could look like.
[2021-06-29T21:00:33.044Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	+1
[2021-06-29T21:00:47.811Z]	<cel>	... We'll make the video available; people can look through it again. Let's go ahead putting concrete proposals on the mailing list.
[2021-06-29T21:00:55.442Z]	<cel>	... We'll run some of them on the next call
[2021-06-29T21:00:58.096Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	Cheers!
[2021-06-29T21:01:01.328Z]	<cel>	... Have a great rest of week!
[2021-06-29T21:01:54.497Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
