[2020-05-26T15:58:59.117Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-05-26T15:59:01.821Z]	<MosesMa>	present+
[2020-05-26T15:59:38.287Z]	<Mark_>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:00:49.498Z]	<manu>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:01:00.149Z]	<burn>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:01:13.438Z]	<MosesMa>	You sound fine
[2020-05-26T16:01:25.045Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:01:40.147Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:02:17.590Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:02:34.618Z]	<nholloway45>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:02:37.081Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020May/0126.html
[2020-05-26T16:02:56.219Z]	<nikosft>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:03:41.185Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-05-26T16:03:51.081Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:04:35.892Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:04:44.080Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:04:46.460Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:06:06.600Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-05-26T16:06:39.970Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: rgrant
[2020-05-26T16:06:43.244Z]	<ChristopherA>	scribe: rgrant
[2020-05-26T16:07:02.742Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: introductions
[2020-05-26T16:07:07.088Z]	<MosesMa>	Mark is new
[2020-05-26T16:07:25.229Z]	<kimhd>	q+ to call out people
[2020-05-26T16:08:17.344Z]	<rgrant>	Brent: <unknown username> cochair of DID working group, works at evernym, in this community for several years
[2020-05-26T16:08:48.285Z]	<rgrant>	nholloway45: <audio weak>
[2020-05-26T16:09:08.056Z]	<rgrant>	nholloway45: please recap on irc if possible
[2020-05-26T16:09:14.762Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:09:32.225Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:09:45.180Z]	<MosesMa>	q+
[2020-05-26T16:09:48.795Z]	<nholloway45>	Linkedin public profile - https://www.linkedin.com/in/nat-h-6382b8157
[2020-05-26T16:10:05.407Z]	<manu>	q+ to mention JSON-LD votes.
[2020-05-26T16:10:08.101Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-05-26T16:10:09.361Z]	<rgrant>	nholloway45: i don't have access to linkedin, can you summarize?
[2020-05-26T16:10:11.083Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:10:39.301Z]	<kimhd>	q-
[2020-05-26T16:10:50.321Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: identiverse
[2020-05-26T16:11:22.803Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: four weekly recurring meetings (see announcements for details)
[2020-05-26T16:11:28.322Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:11:30.025Z]	<Mark_>	Sorry all, seems like I'm unable to join the voip.
[2020-05-26T16:12:09.100Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-05-26T16:12:15.068Z]	<rgrant>	Mark_: try the plain old telelphone system
[2020-05-26T16:12:24.431Z]	<nholloway45>	rgrant Research Engineer at USAA. Work in USAA Labs in identity, AI, crypto and general security.
[2020-05-26T16:12:36.344Z]	<nholloway45>	np
[2020-05-26T16:13:24.828Z]	<rgrant>	manu: jsonld1.1 has finished work on spec
[2020-05-26T16:13:39.821Z]	<rgrant>	manu: and other framing algorithms
[2020-05-26T16:14:31.087Z]	<MosesMa>	Mark, you can call in via Skypeout, Whatsapp or some low cost app from Europe: +1.540.274.1034 x6306
[2020-05-26T16:14:42.732Z]	<manu>	https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/33280/json-ld11/
[2020-05-26T16:15:08.581Z]	<rgrant>	manu: W3C member organizations are expected to vote on whether to approve the final specification.  It's very important, if you're a W3C member, that you vote in favor of this technology that underlies many of the specifications created by this community group.
[2020-05-26T16:15:18.375Z]	<manu>	https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/33280/jsonld-charter/
[2020-05-26T16:15:19.971Z]	<jonathan_holt>	present+ jonathan_holt
[2020-05-26T16:15:35.181Z]	<rgrant>	manu: the other thing is the lsonld1.1 WG maintenance charter
[2020-05-26T16:15:37.693Z]	<nholloway45>	thank you kimhd!
[2020-05-26T16:16:06.681Z]	<kimhd>	Regarding attendee list, I have the same question for nikosft -- can you point me to a profile page we can use for you (linkedin profile, twitter, or blog)?
[2020-05-26T16:16:13.236Z]	<rgrant>	manu: active working groups reduces lag time in fixing specificaitons
[2020-05-26T16:17:17.169Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: jsonld1.1 has been asked formally by the DID <and some other group> to maintain the registries
[2020-05-26T16:17:26.368Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vj811aUbs8GwZUNo-LIFBHafsz4rZTSnRtPv7RQaqNc/edit#heading=h.i2v9iagxg4em
[2020-05-26T16:17:54.694Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: there was discussion here about outlining what the two working groups did
[2020-05-26T16:17:58.706Z]	<MosesMa>	q+
[2020-05-26T16:19:03.366Z]	<Balazs>	+present
[2020-05-26T16:19:12.100Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: <...is looking for some link in a document>
[2020-05-26T16:19:17.589Z]	<manu>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vj811aUbs8GwZUNo-LIFBHafsz4rZTSnRtPv7RQaqNc/edit#heading=h.fe7a8nw475r
[2020-05-26T16:19:48.523Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: under our new charter we can define how we handle work and task items, and we need to be more clear about these processes.
[2020-05-26T16:19:52.906Z]	<manu>	voip: noise?
[2020-05-26T16:20:02.691Z]	<kimhd>	present+ Balazs
[2020-05-26T16:20:13.454Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-05-26T16:20:37.630Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack manu
[2020-05-26T16:20:51.681Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/75
[2020-05-26T16:21:35.725Z]	<rgrant>	manu: regarding registries, there is some overlap with Dan Burnett's responsibilities.  good news is that DID working group has put in a lot of work that "is converging"
[2020-05-26T16:22:02.072Z]	<rgrant>	manu: some work may be reusable.  there is a sane way to do this without putting an insane amount of work on the CCG
[2020-05-26T16:22:14.384Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/3
[2020-05-26T16:22:19.074Z]	<kimhd>	present+ jceb, SANDEEP, Karen, loveish
[2020-05-26T16:22:23.988Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: we need to move this all to ReSpec, but our placeholder googledoc is linked
[2020-05-26T16:22:36.182Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: issue #3 is update to RSA signature suite
[2020-05-26T16:23:24.165Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: we had a volunteer for a while but not currently.  chairs have discussed this.  unless there is a volunteer, we're going to close this [item from] this repo.
[2020-05-26T16:23:24.695Z]	<manu>	q+ to note why this is important.
[2020-05-26T16:24:10.621Z]	<rgrant>	manu: it is going to be unavoidable that this crypto suite gets used.  enterprise uses this instead of ed25519.
[2020-05-26T16:24:19.581Z]	<Orie>	Recommend RSA folks support https://github.com/w3c-ccg/lds-jws2020
[2020-05-26T16:24:25.346Z]	<Orie>	and use it instead
[2020-05-26T16:24:43.632Z]	<rgrant>	manu: my concern is that if we archive it here no community will be working on it.  candidate editors are too busy working on DID things.
[2020-05-26T16:24:54.201Z]	<rgrant>	manu: we won't have a spec for the things that are deployed.
[2020-05-26T16:25:00.156Z]	<rgrant>	manu: we're in a bad situation
[2020-05-26T16:25:14.640Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: we recognie your hard work for this community.
[2020-05-26T16:25:21.696Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: at this point, it's incorrect
[2020-05-26T16:25:54.523Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: it would be better to mark it as archives and <Aurie?> can mark it
[2020-05-26T16:26:58.725Z]	<rgrant>	orie: we should archive and document as we go
[2020-05-26T16:27:17.889Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/3
[2020-05-26T16:27:21.021Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-05-26T16:27:24.242Z]	<manu>	q-
[2020-05-26T16:27:31.082Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack MosesMa
[2020-05-26T16:27:35.605Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack MosesMa
[2020-05-26T16:27:45.742Z]	<MosesMa>	Link for the Science article: https://science.sciencemag.org/content/368/6492/719
[2020-05-26T16:27:58.845Z]	<rgrant>	MosesMa: coauthor for paper for Science was trying to log into call.
[2020-05-26T16:28:19.301Z]	<ChristopherA>	"Blockchain-facilitated sharing to advance outbreak R&D"
[2020-05-26T16:28:25.124Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:28:47.947Z]	<kimhd>	present+ JeffO-StL
[2020-05-26T16:28:57.975Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: now we move to item of the day: elections
[2020-05-26T16:29:10.731Z]	<kimhd>	present+ dlehn
[2020-05-26T16:29:15.522Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:29:24.668Z]	<MosesMa>	Mark, are you on the call now?
[2020-05-26T16:29:35.787Z]	<MosesMa>	type q+ if you are
[2020-05-26T16:30:00.468Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: four years ago, verifiable credientials task force moved to WG, and manu asked ChristopherA tot chair and kimhd volunteered too, then less than a year later JoeAndrieu
[2020-05-26T16:30:13.086Z]	<manu>	I am forever grateful to ChristopherA and kimhd and JoeAndrieu for stepping up as Chairs those many years ago. :)
[2020-05-26T16:30:18.308Z]	<Mark>	Yes, I'm in. Regular phone. Low battery.
[2020-05-26T16:30:26.804Z]	<Mark>	q+
[2020-05-26T16:30:42.791Z]	<rgrant>	...joind and there was a lot of work and updating the chair was supposed to be updated and elections and the charter needed fixing.
[2020-05-26T16:30:53.527Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: ChristopherA is not running for reelection.
[2020-05-26T16:31:24.813Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: nominations were announced a couple of weeks ago.  nominations deadline was last night.  as of right now there are three seats that are open under the new charter
[2020-05-26T16:31:38.801Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: kimhd has won uncontested, seat A
[2020-05-26T16:32:05.363Z]	<MosesMa>	All hail the great Kimleesi
[2020-05-26T16:32:08.144Z]	<by_caballero>	three cheers for Wayne!
[2020-05-26T16:32:13.121Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: we only had one one nomination for the three year seat, seat C, Wayne.  and wayne is now chair for that seat.
[2020-05-26T16:32:19.204Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: kimhd any words?
[2020-05-26T16:32:23.132Z]	<by_caballero>	(6 cheers for Kimleesi, may she be merciful on us all)
[2020-05-26T16:32:23.765Z]	<heathervescent>	Yay and congrats to Kim and Wayne!
[2020-05-26T16:32:32.808Z]	<burn>	Congrats Wayne!
[2020-05-26T16:33:09.875Z]	<rgrant>	kimhd: thank you everyone.  very exciteed.  focus will be supporting the new chair.  welcome wayne!  i'm focusing on community growing and inclusivity.
[2020-05-26T16:33:26.581Z]	<rgrant>	kimhd: we have training for support for the broader community.
[2020-05-26T16:34:18.181Z]	<rgrant>	wayne: thanks!  goals: increase adoption, organization alignment (hyperledger, etc.), starting up an <something-pac> call
[2020-05-26T16:34:44.941Z]	<oliver>	present+ oliver_terbu
[2020-05-26T16:34:46.701Z]	<rgrant>	wayne: background is in software engineering and project management
[2020-05-26T16:34:58.055Z]	<wayne>	(APAC)
[2020-05-26T16:35:06.086Z]	<wayne>	aka Asia-Pacific
[2020-05-26T16:35:28.784Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: seat held by JoeAndrieu is contested by heathervescent
[2020-05-26T16:35:49.574Z]	<kimhd>	Christopher -- looks like Mark is in with low battery, not sure if we want to do that first?
[2020-05-26T16:35:52.052Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: election mechanism to be chosen by chairs, and then a week after that, election occurs.
[2020-05-26T16:36:14.369Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA:  we've not done this before.  details to the list in the next few days, after cochairs call
[2020-05-26T16:36:39.493Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: JoeAndrieu has been cochair for 3 years, and we'd like JoeAndrieu to talk about his nomination
[2020-05-26T16:37:01.294Z]	<rgrant>	JoeAndrieu: runs a small consultancy and
[2020-05-26T16:37:39.256Z]	<MosesMa>	Christopher, Mark's phone is low on battery, if you could have him say hi briefly soon that would be great
[2020-05-26T16:37:39.896Z]	<rgrant>	JoeAndrieu: and has many responsibilites in W3C <which your scribe couldn't follow>
[2020-05-26T16:38:06.424Z]	<rgrant>	JoeAndrieu: realized that dealing with requirements independent of technology was a need here
[2020-05-26T16:38:21.134Z]	<rgrant>	JoeAndrieu: standards process is messy.  it's nonlinear
[2020-05-26T16:38:33.741Z]	<kimhd>	s/<something-pac>/APAC
[2020-05-26T16:38:47.843Z]	<rgrant>	JoeAndrieu: our job is to hold the space for the different voices, so that they can participate.  eager to continue this week.
[2020-05-26T16:39:04.071Z]	<kimhd>	s/<Aurie?>/Orie
[2020-05-26T16:39:38.211Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: my company is <couldn't hear> founded in 2006, after being in tech for 10 years.  i decided to throw my name in the hat after a lot of deliberation.
[2020-05-26T16:39:44.233Z]	<by_caballero>	https://thepurpletornado.com/reports/
[2020-05-26T16:40:02.045Z]	<by_caballero>	^ The Purple Tornado, LLC (CA, USA)
[2020-05-26T16:40:14.916Z]	<kimhd>	s/<couldn't hear>/The Purple Tornado, LLC (CA, USA)
[2020-05-26T16:40:31.610Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: joined CCG due to interest in how the standards process works - how the sausage is made.  had verymixed experiences.  thought about leaving and for a while did step away, but decided to give it my last stop.
[2020-05-26T16:40:51.673Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: be sure everything is thought through to minimize unintended consequences
[2020-05-26T16:41:18.273Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: because technologists are so experienced at solving the problems, they don't see the broader impacts in other areas.
[2020-05-26T16:42:11.886Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: went back to school and got masters from Foresight and ... futures ... geopolitical, economics, covid.  dramatic change.  trach record of understanding technology.
[2020-05-26T16:42:13.804Z]	<Tom_S___USAA_>	present+
[2020-05-26T16:42:17.668Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-05-26T16:42:30.972Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: want to bring my skills and talents to this community to take it to the next level.
[2020-05-26T16:42:47.153Z]	<ChristopherA>	q- Mark
[2020-05-26T16:42:48.026Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: there are roles for all of us to play.
[2020-05-26T16:42:59.263Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: how are we going to respond to the shifting things in the world.
[2020-05-26T16:43:03.646Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: covid19
[2020-05-26T16:43:13.385Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: we can be more proactive
[2020-05-26T16:43:35.416Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: intersted in where this technology can go.  early baby stages.
[2020-05-26T16:43:55.351Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: we can positively influence billions of people
[2020-05-26T16:44:07.476Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: intersted in legal identity and IoT identity.
[2020-05-26T16:44:19.606Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: IoT and <npe?>
[2020-05-26T16:44:23.871Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: supply chain
[2020-05-26T16:44:29.864Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: machine learning
[2020-05-26T16:44:55.769Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: i see a lot of the work here as baby steps
[2020-05-26T16:45:27.588Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: background: i'm just a badass.  i get things done.  level 40 <something>
[2020-05-26T16:45:32.971Z]	<kimhd>	s/<npe?>/NPE
[2020-05-26T16:45:53.224Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: colabborated with identitywoman to write report
[2020-05-26T16:46:10.025Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: <scribe fail>
[2020-05-26T16:46:18.263Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: been in the space for a long time
[2020-05-26T16:46:40.651Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: collaborated with a lot of folks from identity community
[2020-05-26T16:46:41.488Z]	<by_caballero>	(reports linked above)
[2020-05-26T16:46:47.571Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: made a film about it
[2020-05-26T16:47:17.736Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: communicating it's power and practicality to non-experts .  governments, venture capitalists.
[2020-05-26T16:47:31.004Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: over and over, we talk about how we wish we had this kind of information.
[2020-05-26T16:47:47.448Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: track record of creating that kind of content.
[2020-05-26T16:47:55.869Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: that's what i want to bring to CCG here
[2020-05-26T16:48:13.467Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: incrase the diversity of this community
[2020-05-26T16:48:29.262Z]	<chriswinc>	Thank you Kim, Joe, Heather, and Wayne for running. Thank you as well Christopher for your service. Chairing is a critical role and we all appreciate the work that it takes to move the community forward.
[2020-05-26T16:48:35.652Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-05-26T16:48:35.803Z]	<rgrant>	heathervescent: that's why i'm running for CG.  thank you.
[2020-05-26T16:48:54.095Z]	<kimhd>	thanks chriswinc!
[2020-05-26T16:49:02.164Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: process will be two weeks
[2020-05-26T16:49:20.687Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-05-26T16:49:30.702Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: any questions?
[2020-05-26T16:49:36.571Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: for the candidates?
[2020-05-26T16:49:39.182Z]	<MosesMa>	I think Mark's phone ran out of battery... we can try again next week
[2020-05-26T16:50:06.024Z]	<Mark>	Still here!
[2020-05-26T16:50:21.465Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-05-26T16:50:30.255Z]	<ChristopherA>	topic: Science Paper
[2020-05-26T16:50:38.921Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: last call for questions.  topic moves to Mark's paper
[2020-05-26T16:50:47.265Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: thanks for having me
[2020-05-26T16:50:56.881Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: bear with me, i'm new
[2020-05-26T16:51:13.523Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: invited by MosesMa and kimhd due to publication in Science
[2020-05-26T16:51:22.162Z]	<ChristopherA>	Science Magazine "Blockchain-facilitated sharing to advance outbreak R&D"https://science.sciencemag.org/content/368/6492/719
[2020-05-26T16:51:35.724Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: intro: innovation policy researcher at delft
[2020-05-26T16:52:05.841Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: not a computer scientists nor a developer, but picked up DIDs and translated to my field of infectious diseases
[2020-05-26T16:52:23.193Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: aim is to identify barriers to effective cooperation
[2020-05-26T16:52:53.665Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: collaborating with infectious disease control at Dutch <org>
[2020-05-26T16:53:12.026Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: collegue sat next to MosesMa on flight and got memed
[2020-05-26T16:53:40.569Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: trust issues are at the root of many problems that we see for covid, that hamper outbreak response
[2020-05-26T16:53:57.210Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: we need lots of different actors sharing data
[2020-05-26T16:54:23.083Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: several barriers related to private stakes: academia wants to get publications
[2020-05-26T16:54:44.361Z]	<rgrant>	Mark:  this is disincentive to share research data.  we have several incentivization problems.
[2020-05-26T16:55:00.245Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: dropping a link to initiate other discussion
[2020-05-26T16:55:01.870Z]	<MosesMa>	q+
[2020-05-26T16:55:25.215Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: our vision integrates <lots of stuff>
[2020-05-26T16:55:40.373Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: we can shape a trust layer underneath existing systems
[2020-05-26T16:55:50.504Z]	<MosesMa>	This proposed vision is called an ORBI - Outbreak R&D Blockchain Infrastructure
[2020-05-26T16:55:51.555Z]	<agropper>	q?
[2020-05-26T16:55:57.188Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2020-05-26T16:55:58.229Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: these barriers are still hampering effective disease response in covid
[2020-05-26T16:56:18.707Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: we're thinking about furhter papers and the existing work is just a high-level abstract start
[2020-05-26T16:56:34.009Z]	<rgrant>	Mark:  thanks for having me!
[2020-05-26T16:56:39.502Z]	<kimhd>	thanks Mark!
[2020-05-26T16:56:58.604Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: manages last comment.
[2020-05-26T16:57:15.088Z]	<ChristopherA>	q- MosesMa
[2020-05-26T16:57:19.063Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack agropper
[2020-05-26T16:57:21.750Z]	<rgrant>	agropper: how do you see reputation, bound in the academic stuff, fitting into this community?
[2020-05-26T16:57:30.281Z]	<MosesMa>	Mark and I are working on a COVID project as well, called COVID Defender, contact us for more info.
[2020-05-26T16:58:05.966Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: reputation very interesting.  it's key for academics and others.  out of scope of current paper.  supplementary materials discuss verifiable credentials could be used .
[2020-05-26T16:58:20.072Z]	<MosesMa>	I'll ask Mark to join the discussion forum as well
[2020-05-26T16:58:33.361Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: we'd like to explore this better in the future.  the paper is already information-dense and didn't have room for these details.
[2020-05-26T16:58:55.554Z]	<MosesMa>	We had to smash a 12 page paper into 3 pages...
[2020-05-26T16:58:58.209Z]	<rgrant>	Mark: if you think about the quality, you want something like the existing reputation system in place.
[2020-05-26T16:59:08.128Z]	<Orie>	Example: signing COVID related JSON-LD used by search engines, using Bitcoin and Ethereum curve: https://secp256k1.jsld.org/
[2020-05-26T16:59:28.701Z]	<Mark>	Link to the paper: https://science.sciencemag.org/content/368/6492/719/tab-pdf
[2020-05-26T16:59:35.491Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: closing the call with: wayne please join other chairs on thursday regarding process
[2020-05-26T16:59:41.388Z]	<wayne>	+1
[2020-05-26T16:59:41.694Z]	<Mark>	Link to the supplements: https://science.sciencemag.org/content/sci/suppl/2020/05/13/368.6492.719.DC1/aba1355_vanderWaal_SM.pdf
[2020-05-26T16:59:45.361Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: will graduate to scribe list!
[2020-05-26T16:59:50.756Z]	<rgrant>	ChristopherA: thanks everyone!
[2020-05-26T16:59:55.787Z]	<MosesMa>	Thanks and bye!
[2020-05-26T17:00:06.351Z]	<Mark>	Supplementary diagram (at the bottom of this link): https://beta.vu.nl/nl/nieuws-agenda/nieuws/2020/apr-jun/blockchain-technologie-om-internationale-samenwerking-in-de-strijd-tegen-infectieziekten-te-verbeter.aspx
[2020-05-26T17:13:03.451Z]	<rgrant>	s/delft/1Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Athena Institute for Research on Innovation and Communication in Health and Life Sciences, Amsterdam, Netherlands./
[2020-05-26T17:13:57.039Z]	<rgrant>	Mark also affiliated with Triall Foundation, Maarssen, Netherlands.
