Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and ben_-_transmute for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-11-15-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-11-15-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2022-11-15

Agenda:
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/blob/main/AGENDA.md
Action Items:
  1. file separate issue for requiring verifications array in 
    verification response
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and ben_-_transmute
Present:
  nis, Ben - Transmute, Jim Masloski, Chris Abernethy, vivien, Orie 
  Steele, Russell Hofvendahl (mesur.io), TallTed // Ted Thibodeau 
  (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop
<jim_masloski> nothing from me
https://vocabulary.uncefact.org/
Chris_Abernethy: Most of these PR's are mine so it might be best 
  if I didn't scribe.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I am I'm tired but I figure that I can go 
  ahead and give scribing a shot.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
ben_-_transmute is scribing.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/459
Nis: starting with interop pull 459
<transcriber> Chris_Abernethy: Yes so this is one of the ones 
  that's been kicking around for a while this fixes issue 363 which 
  was the one to add a link to import Postman collections this 
  modifies the documentation for both the performance in the 
  interop tests with some instructions on how to import each of the 
  different items in the postman so yeah that's basically a 
  documentation update.
Chris: this issue fixes issue 363 for documentation update
<transcriber> Ben_-_Transmute: The this looks like we've got 
  looks like transcribers on can you get the three dots and then 
  turn off captions.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/462
Nis: next 462
Chris: this is another oldie but goodie, suggest by Ted to update 
  procedure for meeting publication
Chris: also address process for manually scribing
Nis: we have enough approvals, any objects?
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/463
Chris: this PR adds a brows-able list of historical reports
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/465
Chis: i created this PR before making this ready for PR on the 
  issue
Chris: this PR adds a top level json property on the verifiable 
  credential to align with vc-api
Chris: this will be breaking change that will start failing test 
  when it merges
Orie Steele:  I am in favor of the change
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/465
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/466
Chris: this PR is the same change but for verifiable 
  presentations
<jim_masloski> :)
Orie Steele:  This one is disagree with (sarcasm)
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/467
Chris: this one adds an additional test with a bad signature to 
  get a 200 response with verified false
Orie Steele:  At the library implementation layer, often you will 
  see an implementation provide details around why a verifiaction 
  failed
Orie Steele:  It could be because date was out of range, or 
  because revocation was not resolvable, or credential was revoked
Orie Steele:  This is information that we could be providing, as 
  a nice to have enhancement
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/openapi/#get-/credentials/-credential-id-
Nis: we do have some of that in the spec
Chris: there is an enum with a title status and description
Orie Steele:  Are we testing this?
Chris: no it is not required
Nis: should we up our game on this?
Orie Steele:  In the test you just did, you only checked for 
  verified false, right?
Chris: that is correct, verfied is required, where the 
  verification array is not required
Chris: we could update the verification array to be required, as 
  without is not very helpful
Orie Steele:  Chris would you mind creating an issue for that?
Chris: yes, i will do it

ACTION: file separate issue for requiring verifications array in 
  verification response

Nis: We seem to be good to merge 467
Nis: let's switch focus over to trace-vocab
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/454
Orie Steele:  Before we do that, there is one issue that i would 
  like to discuss
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/454
Orie Steele:  Isse 454 attempts to align our api with the vc api 
  to remove prove
Orie Steele:  Before this change the client could ask for a 
  specific proof format such as ed255192018, or vc-jwt
Orie Steele:  But after this change, the server will need to make 
  this change for the client
Orie Steele:  So i proposed to move the option into the header
Orie Steele:  If we're going to take this approach, we might use 
  JSON web tokens, as it creates security and agility issues if we 
  get different values per server
Chris: what is the difference between a server that can only 
  issue one type, versus not being able to request any at all
Orie Steele:  It depends on which proof format the provider 
  supports and different cryptography
Orie Steele:  Versus someone else who might only issue one type
Orie Steele:  I would prefer is we had the change were we used 
  JSON Web Signature as a default
Orie Steele:  Versus another one that might creat issues in a 
  FIPS environment
Orie Steele:  So we dont need to make a decision about it, but i 
  will likely add change requests until we have a consensus
Orie Steele:  But i would prefer having an header on the request
Nis: can you put that on the issue?
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/457
Orie Steele:  Yes, i did, i added X-VC-PROOF-TYPE
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/608
Nis: we'll start from the bottom with Russel
Russel: this is an application for the USJ to audit some facility
Russel: it was pretty straightforward, with a description update, 
  should be ready to merge
Nis: Mahmoud requested a change
Russell: that was a ddressed
Nis: my opinion is that the change address has been addressed
Nis: I'll go ahead and merge it
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/617
Bne: adds organization as a type to all of our verifiable 
  credential wrappers to have a specific schema for the issuer
Ben: as opposed to type object
<jim_masloski> I am not on the git hub, can I approve from here
Nis: i'll add a comment that we need another approval on this
<jim_masloski> No objection from me
Nis: with two approvals i will go ahead and merge
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/618
Ben: this is to make expiration date an explict optional property 
  in our schemas
Orie Steele:  Agreed
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/619
<orie> I have to drop, GLHF
Nis: next is 619 from Russel
Russel: there are two related PPQ forms for pest interception and 
  pest dtermination
Russel: there were some change requests
Nis: there were some acronyms i asked you to spell out
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/619
Nis: merge when merge conflict is resolved
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/620
Nis: the next is also yours Ruseel
Russel: this is the notice of arrival, so this is a form that 
  importer must submit when the shipment arrives
Russel: looks like there is a similar change request that was 
  address
<jim_masloski> approved
Nis: looks like there is a conflict, so merge when conflict is 
  addressed
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/622
Russel: this is updating the existing PPQ 203 and PPQ 587 to have 
  the updated name format, and adds updated schemas around 
  inspections
Ruseel: i think there was something around shipment that was able 
  to be rounded out
Nis: i am happy that these credentials have finally been cleaned 
  up for naming conventions
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/623
Nis: Can merge when conflicts are addressed
Russel: for shipments that need to be refrigerated, they check 
  the temperature of the bulbs
Russel: i fully agree that temperature recording should be 
  covered by Measured observation
Russel: currently it doesn't actually support that, being more of 
  a mechanical observation
Russel: so we might make an issue to report this
Nis: do we want to hold off on it and sicuss it next week?
Nis: How do we want to progress this?
Russel: i think there are changed to be made for observation, 
  which will probably be its own set of issues
Russel: i think we should merge this and then approach 
  observation later
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/623
Russel: it would be better to have a more elgant solution, but i 
  think that is separate from this PR
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/625
Nis: 625 is next
<jim_masloski> approve, will get on github before next weeks call 
  so I can assist there.  sorry not getting it done this week.
Ben: this updates mill test report to only use the required 
  fields for organization
Russel: i'm wondering if we stopped using entity
Nis: we've had a lot of pull requests recently to stop using 
  entity to use organization directly
Nis: we've started to move mostly to organization, unless we 
  really want to
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/625
<jim_masloski> approved
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/626
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/627
Ben: this is a similar PR, we use only relevant fields for 
  organization for Bill of Lading
Ben: this is a similar PR, we use only relevant fields for 
  organization for Commercial Invoice
Nis: this concludes our pull requests
Nis: we normally switch back to trace-interop, we might not go 
  through the whole list
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/457
Nis: there is a ton to address on trace-vocab
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/447
Nis: we can bring up issue 457, and focus on specific ones for 
  trace-interop and switch over to trace-vocab
Chris: I would like to bring up 447 on interop, we can close that 
  if there is agreement to close
Nis: any objects to closing this ticket?
Nis: No? closing this issue
Nis: can we talk about issue 457?
NIs: as it turns out Azure has specific requirements about what 
  scopes can be called
Nis: this means that we might want to address this for different 
  Oauth platforms
Chris: let me just start by saying the recent comments are my 
  Isaac and Orie getting caught up to speed
Chirs; right now we have tests where the request much contain a 
  specific scope, such as `issue:credential` to issue a credential
Chris: but if you are using Azure, you can't name a scope exactly 
  what you want, and would cause the test to fail
Chris: so the proposal on this is that we remove the scope names 
  from the conformance tests
Chris: the difference is that the conformance test will need to 
  have all scopes to pass the tests
Chris: the suggestion was that we make this a configuration 
  variable
Chris: if you're using AUth0 this could be blank and for AzureAD, 
  you would provide what you need to provide
Chris: orie brought up some issues around interop
Chris: I think this requires further discussion as it is a large 
  change
Chris: and I think people should sit with this and think about it
Nis: I came up with a solution that doesnt sound good but hear me 
  out
Nis: right now we have 8 scopes that we are controlling, does it 
  make sense that we have 8 scopes but we give them secret names?
Nis: and then each vendor can assign the scope value into those 
  secrets?
Chris: the answer is yes we can do that, but we're not testing or 
  mandating anything in that case
Chris: we're not saying you need to have certain endpoints, and 
  then you're providing those values to yourself
Nis:but we are testing granularity that there is something that 
  can be toggled to grant access to a resource for an end point
Chris: if we do that, it means that can HAVE TO separate end 
  points by scope, rather than they CAN separate end points by 
  scope
Nis: let's continue on the issue
Chris: I definitely think you need to add that as a comment
Chris: so we can address the test explosion that's going to 
  happen because of this
Nis: that's what i was trying to address, we've made a lot of 
  work on conformance and I want to keep the work we have
Nis: but maybe we should take the opportunity to ask if we're 
  doing the right thing
Nis: we're at the 5 minute mark. we've addressed the pull 
  requests and main isses
Nis: so let's go ahead and end here
Chris: we now need to publish agenda prior to the next meeting
Chirs; i will do that this time to make sure the notes that i 
  made are legitimate
Chris: but each meeting we will need to get someone ahead of the 
  next meeting
Russel: which readme was that updated in?
Chris: the main one
Nis: good to work with you see, see you next week
All: good bye
