[2022-11-15T18:30:02.190Z]	<Chris_Abernethy> Agenda: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/blob/main/AGENDA.md
[2022-11-15T18:30:02.190Z]	<nis>	present+
[2022-11-15T18:30:37.196Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2022-11-15T18:31:02.057Z]	<Jim_Masloski>	present+
[2022-11-15T18:31:36.116Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-11-15T18:32:12.859Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-11-15T18:32:12.860Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2022-11-15T18:32:15.343Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-11-15T18:32:37.151Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-11-15T18:32:39.030Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop
[2022-11-15T18:33:04.572Z]	<Jim_Masloski>	nothing from me
[2022-11-15T18:33:08.869Z]	<nis>	https://vocabulary.uncefact.org/
[2022-11-15T18:34:47.326Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Most of these PR's are mine so it might be best if I didn't scribe.
[2022-11-15T18:34:49.967Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-11-15T18:35:00.261Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I am I'm tired but I figure that I can go ahead and give scribing a shot.
[2022-11-15T18:35:05.372Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2022-11-15T18:35:05.491Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe+
[2022-11-15T18:35:16.373Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/459
[2022-11-15T18:35:24.007Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: starting with interop pull 459
[2022-11-15T18:35:50.613Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yes so this is one of the ones that's been kicking around for a while this fixes issue 363 which was the one to add a link to import Postman collections this modifies the documentation for both the performance in the interop tests with some instructions on how to import each of the different items in the postman so yeah that's basically a documentation update.
[2022-11-15T18:36:00.687Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: this issue fixes issue 363 for documentation update
[2022-11-15T18:36:12.717Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: The this looks like we've got looks like transcribers on can you get the three dots and then turn off captions.
[2022-11-15T18:36:44.191Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/462
[2022-11-15T18:36:46.340Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: next 462
[2022-11-15T18:37:09.994Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: this is another oldie but goodie, suggest by Ted to update procedure for meeting publication
[2022-11-15T18:37:44.390Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: also address process for manually scribing
[2022-11-15T18:37:58.957Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-11-15T18:38:01.727Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: we have enough approvals, any objects?
[2022-11-15T18:38:08.900Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/463
[2022-11-15T18:38:38.685Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: this PR adds a brows-able list of historical reports
[2022-11-15T18:39:50.932Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/465
[2022-11-15T18:40:08.842Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chis: i created this PR before making this ready for PR on the issue
[2022-11-15T18:40:41.979Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: this PR adds a top level json property on the verifiable credential to align with vc-api
[2022-11-15T18:41:19.553Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: this will be breaking change that will start failing test when it merges
[2022-11-15T18:41:27.243Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: i am in favor of the change
[2022-11-15T18:41:41.264Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/465
[2022-11-15T18:42:07.405Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/466
[2022-11-15T18:42:23.960Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: this PR is the same change but for verifiable presentations
[2022-11-15T18:42:32.973Z]	<Jim_Masloski>	:)
[2022-11-15T18:42:34.116Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: this one is disagree with (sarcasm)
[2022-11-15T18:42:42.455Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/467
[2022-11-15T18:43:21.800Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: this one adds an additional test with a bad signature to get a 200 response with verified false
[2022-11-15T18:43:55.679Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: at the library implementation layer, often you will see an implementation provide details around why a verifiaction failed
[2022-11-15T18:44:23.224Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: it could be because date was out of range, or because revocation was not resolvable, or credential was revoked
[2022-11-15T18:44:42.518Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: this is information that we could be providing, as a nice to have enhancement
[2022-11-15T18:44:46.774Z]	<nis>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/openapi/#get-/credentials/-credential-id-
[2022-11-15T18:44:51.504Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: we do have some of that in the spec
[2022-11-15T18:45:02.361Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: there is an enum with a title status and description
[2022-11-15T18:45:07.343Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Are we testing this?
[2022-11-15T18:45:12.585Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: no it is not required
[2022-11-15T18:45:19.646Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: should we up our game on this?
[2022-11-15T18:45:34.300Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: in the test you just did, you only checked for verified false, right?
[2022-11-15T18:45:53.602Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: that is correct, verfied is required, where the verification array is not required
[2022-11-15T18:46:09.914Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: we could update the verification array to be required, as without is not very helpful
[2022-11-15T18:46:19.520Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Chris would you mind creating an issue for that?
[2022-11-15T18:46:23.305Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: yes, i will do it
[2022-11-15T18:46:25.016Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Action: file separate issue for requiring verifications array in verification response
[2022-11-15T18:46:34.500Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We seem to be good to merge 467
[2022-11-15T18:46:43.662Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: let's switch focus over to trace-vocab
[2022-11-15T18:46:52.630Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/454
[2022-11-15T18:46:59.946Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: before we do that, there is one issue that i would like to discuss
[2022-11-15T18:47:29.023Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/454
[2022-11-15T18:48:02.671Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: isse 454 attempts to align our api with the vc api to remove prove
[2022-11-15T18:48:29.727Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: before this change the client could ask for a specific proof format such as ed255192018, or vc-jwt
[2022-11-15T18:48:44.814Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: but after this change, the server will need to make this change for the client
[2022-11-15T18:49:16.648Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: so i proposed to move the option into the header
[2022-11-15T18:50:02.318Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: if we're going to take this approach, we might use JSON web tokens, as it creates security and agility issues if we get different values per server
[2022-11-15T18:50:25.192Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: what is the difference between a server that can only issue one type, versus not being able to request any at all
[2022-11-15T18:50:52.023Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: it depends on which proof format the provider supports and different cryptography
[2022-11-15T18:51:05.432Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: versus someone else who might only issue one type
[2022-11-15T18:51:24.502Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I would prefer is we had the change were we used JSON Web Signature as a default
[2022-11-15T18:51:36.461Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: versus another one that might creat issues in a FIPS environment
[2022-11-15T18:52:03.079Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: so we dont need to make a decision about it, but i will likely add change requests until we have a consensus
[2022-11-15T18:52:14.209Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: but i would prefer having an header on the request
[2022-11-15T18:52:19.410Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: can you put that on the issue?
[2022-11-15T18:52:32.121Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/457
[2022-11-15T18:52:33.051Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: yes, i did, i added X-VC-PROOF-TYPE
[2022-11-15T18:53:05.264Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2022-11-15T18:53:19.066Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/608
[2022-11-15T18:53:24.577Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: we'll start from the bottom with Russel
[2022-11-15T18:53:38.512Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: this is an application for the USJ to audit some facility
[2022-11-15T18:53:58.671Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: it was pretty straightforward, with a description update, should be ready to merge
[2022-11-15T18:54:12.242Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Mahmoud requested a change
[2022-11-15T18:54:22.825Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russell: that was a ddressed
[2022-11-15T18:54:48.331Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: my opinion is that the change address has been addressed
[2022-11-15T18:54:53.697Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I'll go ahead and merge it
[2022-11-15T18:55:02.033Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/617
[2022-11-15T18:56:00.461Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Bne: adds organization as a type to all of our verifiable credential wrappers to have a specific schema for the issuer
[2022-11-15T18:56:09.367Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: as opposed to type object
[2022-11-15T18:56:38.386Z]	<Jim_Masloski>	I am not on the git hub, can I approve from here
[2022-11-15T18:56:42.715Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: i'll add a comment that we need another approval on this
[2022-11-15T18:56:43.934Z]	<nis>	q?
[2022-11-15T18:56:56.724Z]	<Jim_Masloski>	No objection from me
[2022-11-15T18:57:25.997Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: with two approvals i will go ahead and merge
[2022-11-15T18:57:28.203Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/618
[2022-11-15T18:58:11.511Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: this is to make expiration date an explict optional property in our schemas
[2022-11-15T18:58:13.911Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: agreed
[2022-11-15T18:58:17.060Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/619
[2022-11-15T18:58:22.641Z]	<Orie>	I have to drop, GLHF
[2022-11-15T18:58:26.773Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: next is 619 from Russel
[2022-11-15T18:59:00.419Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: there are two related PPQ forms for pest interception and pest dtermination
[2022-11-15T18:59:12.248Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: there were some change requests
[2022-11-15T18:59:27.009Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: there were some acronyms i asked you to spell out
[2022-11-15T18:59:38.839Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/619
[2022-11-15T19:00:32.119Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: merge when merge conflict is resolved
[2022-11-15T19:00:39.257Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/620
[2022-11-15T19:00:46.224Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: the next is also yours Ruseel
[2022-11-15T19:01:03.657Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: this is the notice of arrival, so this is a form that importer must submit when the shipment arrives
[2022-11-15T19:01:27.445Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: looks like there is a similar change request that was address
[2022-11-15T19:01:46.435Z]	<Jim_Masloski>	approved
[2022-11-15T19:01:55.792Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: looks like there is a conflict, so merge when conflict is addressed
[2022-11-15T19:02:01.572Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/622
[2022-11-15T19:02:38.769Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: this is updating the existing PPQ 203 and PPQ 587 to have the updated name format, and adds updated schemas around inspections
[2022-11-15T19:02:55.120Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ruseel: i think there was something around shipment that was able to be rounded out
[2022-11-15T19:03:11.620Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: i am happy that these credentials have finally been cleaned up for naming conventions
[2022-11-15T19:03:42.631Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/623
[2022-11-15T19:04:03.540Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Can merge when conflicts are addressed
[2022-11-15T19:04:30.534Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: for shipments that need to be refrigerated, they check the temperature of the bulbs
[2022-11-15T19:04:56.661Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: i fully agree that temperature recording should be covered by Measured observation
[2022-11-15T19:05:13.595Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: currently it doesn't actually support that, being more of a mechanical observation
[2022-11-15T19:05:22.672Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: so we might make an issue to report this
[2022-11-15T19:05:32.527Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: do we want to hold off on it and sicuss it next week?
[2022-11-15T19:05:40.754Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: How do we want to progress this?
[2022-11-15T19:06:00.578Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: i think there are changed to be made for observation, which will probably be its own set of issues
[2022-11-15T19:06:12.351Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: i think we should merge this and then approach observation later
[2022-11-15T19:06:26.207Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/623
[2022-11-15T19:06:28.877Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: it would be better to have a more elgant solution, but i think that is separate from this PR
[2022-11-15T19:06:51.811Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/625
[2022-11-15T19:06:58.911Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: 625 is next
[2022-11-15T19:08:53.160Z]	<Jim_Masloski>	approve, will get on github before next weeks call so I can assist there.  sorry not getting it done this week.
[2022-11-15T19:09:17.012Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: this updates mill test report to only use the required fields for organization
[2022-11-15T19:09:29.941Z]	<nis>	ack russel
[2022-11-15T19:09:44.451Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: i'm wondering if we stopped using entity
[2022-11-15T19:10:06.392Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: we've had a lot of pull requests recently to stop using entity to use organization directly
[2022-11-15T19:10:38.825Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: we've started to move mostly to organization, unless we really want to
[2022-11-15T19:11:08.458Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/625
[2022-11-15T19:11:09.983Z]	<Jim_Masloski>	approved
[2022-11-15T19:11:57.579Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/626
[2022-11-15T19:12:37.192Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/627
[2022-11-15T19:12:43.485Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: this is a similar PR, we use only relevant fields for organization for Bill of Lading
[2022-11-15T19:12:54.692Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: this is a similar PR, we use only relevant fields for organization for Commercial Invoice
[2022-11-15T19:13:19.536Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: this concludes our pull requests
[2022-11-15T19:13:39.674Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: we normally switch back to trace-interop, we might not go through the whole list
[2022-11-15T19:13:43.091Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/457
[2022-11-15T19:13:47.541Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: there is a ton to address on trace-vocab
[2022-11-15T19:14:15.796Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/447
[2022-11-15T19:14:22.245Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: we can bring up issue 457, and focus on specific ones for trace-interop and switch over to trace-vocab
[2022-11-15T19:14:36.008Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I would like to bring up 447 on interop, we can close that if there is agreement to close
[2022-11-15T19:14:43.063Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: any objects to closing this ticket?
[2022-11-15T19:14:51.324Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: No? closing this issue
[2022-11-15T19:14:57.785Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: can we talk about issue 457?
[2022-11-15T19:15:45.329Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	NIs: as it turns out Azure has specific requirements about what scopes can be called
[2022-11-15T19:16:02.106Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: this means that we might want to address this for different Oauth platforms
[2022-11-15T19:16:22.431Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: let me just start by saying the recent comments are my Isaac and Orie getting caught up to speed
[2022-11-15T19:17:07.540Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chirs; right now we have tests where the request much contain a specific scope, such as `issue:credential` to issue a credential
[2022-11-15T19:17:41.600Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: but if you are using Azure, you can't name a scope exactly what you want, and would cause the test to fail
[2022-11-15T19:18:07.056Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: so the proposal on this is that we remove the scope names from the conformance tests
[2022-11-15T19:18:34.933Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: the difference is that the conformance test will need to have all scopes to pass the tests
[2022-11-15T19:18:49.627Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: the suggestion was that we make this a configuration variable
[2022-11-15T19:19:15.591Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: if you're using AUth0 this could be blank and for AzureAD, you would provide what you need to provide
[2022-11-15T19:19:26.132Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: orie brought up some issues around interop
[2022-11-15T19:19:42.279Z]	<nis>	q?
[2022-11-15T19:19:43.916Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I think this requires further discussion as it is a large change
[2022-11-15T19:19:52.421Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: and I think people should sit with this and think about it
[2022-11-15T19:20:09.642Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I came up with a solution that doesnt sound good but hear me out
[2022-11-15T19:20:34.978Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: right now we have 8 scopes that we are controlling, does it make sense that we have 8 scopes but we give them secret names?
[2022-11-15T19:20:53.632Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: and then each vendor can assign the scope value into those secrets?
[2022-11-15T19:20:59.155Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q+
[2022-11-15T19:21:07.693Z]	<nis>	ack chris
[2022-11-15T19:21:26.224Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: the answer is yes we can do that, but we're not testing or mandating anything in that case
[2022-11-15T19:22:07.751Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: we're not saying you need to have certain endpoints, and then you're providing those values to yourself
[2022-11-15T19:22:38.583Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis:but we are testing granularity that there is something that can be toggled to grant access to a resource for an end point
[2022-11-15T19:23:01.567Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: if we do that, it means that can HAVE TO separate end points by scope, rather than they CAN separate end points by scope
[2022-11-15T19:23:09.935Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: let's continue on the issue
[2022-11-15T19:23:20.729Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I definitely think you need to add that as a comment
[2022-11-15T19:23:34.066Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: so we can address the test explosion that's going to happen because of this
[2022-11-15T19:23:58.012Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: that's what i was trying to address, we've made a lot of work on conformance and I want to keep the work we have
[2022-11-15T19:24:20.433Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: but maybe we should take the opportunity to ask if we're doing the right thing
[2022-11-15T19:24:49.631Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: we're at the 5 minute mark. we've addressed the pull requests and main isses
[2022-11-15T19:25:15.809Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: so let's go ahead and end here
[2022-11-15T19:25:29.255Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: we now need to publish agenda prior to the next meeting
[2022-11-15T19:25:44.691Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chirs; i will do that this time to make sure the notes that i made are legitimate
[2022-11-15T19:26:03.263Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: but each meeting we will need to get someone ahead of the next meeting
[2022-11-15T19:26:11.058Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: which readme was that updated in?
[2022-11-15T19:26:15.901Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: the main one
[2022-11-15T19:26:24.179Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: good to work with you see, see you next week
[2022-11-15T19:26:29.462Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	All: good bye
