Thanks to  for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-10-13 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2020-10-12

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Oct/0024.html
Organizer:
  Wayne Chang and Kim Hamilton Duffy and Heather Vescent
Scribe:
  
Present:
  Heather Vescent, Joe Andrieu, Amy Guy, Wayne Chang, Orie Steele, 
  Erica Connell, Kaliya Young, Mike Schwartz, Ryan Grant, Chris 
  Winczewski, Nate Otto, Brent Shambaugh, Brent Zundel, Taylor 
  Kendall
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-10-12/audio.ogg

Error: (IRC nickname 'robbie.jones@forgerock.com' not 
  recognized)[2020-10-13T16:00:49.202Z]	
  <robbie.jones@forgerock.com>	robbie jones: present+
*Crickets chirping*
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
Mike Schwartz:  Perhaps try a different browser and/or dial-in? 
  curious as to the cause if you cannot hear [scribe assist by 
  Wayne Chang]
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
Heather Vescent: FYI, the agenda with dial in numbers is at the 
  top of the IRC window (depending on your IRC client)
Ryan Grant: Wait, someone is talking?
@Wayne - just reloaded in chrome - still no audio
Orie Steele: Lost audio
Wayne Chang: Same
Joe Andrieu: Me too, just now
Heather Vescent: Same
Lost  audio
Orie Steele: Kim has lost power
Joe Andrieu: Fwiw, I've had problems with Brave on Windows such 
  that I simply switch to Chrome when using Jitsi.
Does this work?
I'll try typing some stuff into the machine as a backup 
  scribe...not a fast typist...(but willl help primary)
I'll try.
Ryan Grant: Please raise your hand if you cannot hear audio
I keep getting booted off
Audio now working in firefox on me - but we have two on our team 
  with no audio
Ryan Grant: Okay there must be a meeting happening.  maybe don't 
  :)
Everything is fine from my end.
Erica Connell: No audio on chrome or brave
Firefox on my mac has audio; chrome doesn't
Ryan Grant: Present-
We're working on a zoom connection
Ryan Grant: Kimhd__: zoom doesn't work well for me, either
Erica Connell: Sorry; just no audio here
I don't know what is happening.
Heather Vescent: Zoom link: 
  https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83695523601?pwd=ZVFBNzRyS1o1Y3UxMGZsWDlGWksxdz09
Please can you enable web option for zoom
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83695523601?pwd=ZVFBNzRyS1o1Y3UxMGZsWDlGWksxdz09
Please can you enable web client for zoom
https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/115005666383-Show-a-Join-from-your-browser-Link
Brent Shambaugh: I don't know what is happening.  Okay, so we 
  were at Drummond. Let's see. I think that Brent volunteered. 
  Maybe Ryan Grant is on the queue.  People are saying no audio. I 
  am going to grab a zoom for us . give me a minute to get the 
  stuff (heather and kim)... manu check the back channel.  while 
  that is happening (Kim) any volunteers for scribe yet...  oh we 
  have Brent scribing, thanks brent (Kim)  Heather has included a 
  link, so we will at th[CUT]
Or phone call in option
Heather Vescent: FYI we are at zoom: Zoom link: 
  https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83695523601?pwd=ZVFBNzRyS1o1Y3UxMGZsWDlGWksxdz09
Brent Shambaugh: I don't hear anyone...
Amy Guy:  Got it, that worked
Brent Shambaugh: We are going to zoom, right?
Brent Shambaugh: Okay I
Brent Shambaugh: , In the zoom
Error: (IRC nickname 'kimhd__' not 
  recognized)[2020-10-13T16:19:03.142Z]	<kimhd__>	for anyone who 
  came late, we are in zoom: 
  https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83695523601?pwd=ZVFBNzRyS1o1Y3UxMGZsWDlGWksxdz09
Thanks for a great meeting!
I don't know what is happening.
Give something a lot of choice...bbs polus signatueres.... i 
  blievs that mattr had ones of the ... with zkp...could you take 
  subfilied and mint new creds and not correlatable...
Could not trakc back...
Lot of the work sponsored by sillicon valley inno 
  program...becoming more inclusive...come to an agreement on 
  vocab...has to deal wth manufactuing chemical procs...
How do we have interfacts around vc.... will hand back to 
  heather...
Yeah grrat.... we were putting this preso together for the tpac 
  audience... see a lot of this work together....unifying processes 
  ... seeing how things work toegeht...
Please be in touch ... election in the next year with a chair 
  vacancy...process for work items...github...lots of infrastrucure 
  in place ...next slide...
Looking to collaborate...not just in the operations aspect... 
  communicate the what ... diversity and inclusion...
Might be a little bit earl..y.. thinkibg about sucession planning 
  for chair....want to make sure it is smooth...kim has been a 
  havey lifter....want to have
Transfer of that knowledge...for whoever is going to take over 
  that role next summer...I think that the ...that is the end...
Back to kim...thank heather...thanks wayne...
Are there any questions ...this would be a good opportunity to 
  add to queue...anyeuq about the
Juan on the queie .. how do I eget involved?
For the privacy guidelines... could something...
Wayne talking... in general all of the work items are listed on 
  the github.... owneers for work items...troible reachign work 
  item owneers....(kim) please e-mail chairs and we will
Help you get started .... in gneral we largely drive the 
  partipcation through github and the mailing list...anytone else?
Not seeing anoyher else on the queus .... all of the 
  shennagination... during the front...
Kim curious about the survey... if you give moment I will get it 
  up
Wayne...i have no comments...
Don't want to put anyone on the sport....the survey ... was 3 
  fold... was curious abot the kind of feedback... on recent 
  speakers.... kind of brodend...gone out to different groups
To bring in the speakers....did we like that...
People really like...what's in a wallet.. laos 
  researcher...wanted to dab with data.... did you like the 
  speakers.... what kinds of presenters going foward??
Answer... why did get involvted... fellowship of the ring...know 
  what people are talking about .... fellowship of the ring....
Value that you get from the ... opportuities for 
  collabooration... knowing about new projects ....appreciate 
  context....
Quite nice ... see on the queue...
Kim interjects ... tim up...
Wew are doing stuff with other governments .... lots of stuff out 
  there.... they are huge stake holder.... starting to see more 
  traction from very motivated gov't officials like tyourself
Whre to grow be...
At time...
Thanks to all
Heather...thanks kimd...for challen
Thank
