[2020-02-25T17:05:30.023Z]	<manu>	voip: number?
[2020-02-25T17:05:58.424Z]	<buck>	Yeah, linphone keeps dropping when I try and connect for some reason without any error :-/
[2020-02-25T17:07:11.513Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:07:22.951Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:07:31.541Z]	<manu>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:07:35.878Z]	<Justin_R>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:07:44.968Z]	<sumita>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:07:45.042Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:07:47.999Z]	<dlongley>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:07:50.794Z]	<buck>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:08:05.991Z]	<blazp>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:08:28.053Z]	<wvaughn>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:08:28.159Z]	<AnthonyRonning>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:08:43.992Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:08:57.217Z]	<wvaughn>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:09:09.333Z]	<Tom_S__-_USAA>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:09:10.656Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Feb/0073.html
[2020-02-25T17:09:21.286Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:10:02.418Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-02-25T17:10:13.941Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-02-25T17:10:25.799Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-25T17:10:25.920Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-02-25T17:10:31.693Z]	<markus_sabadello>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:10:36.967Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-02-25T17:11:44.364Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-02-25T17:12:46.899Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: Kaliya
[2020-02-25T17:12:54.585Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:13:27.644Z]	<blazp>	q+ to intro - newby
[2020-02-25T17:13:33.162Z]	<manu>	Topic: Introductions / Reintroductions
[2020-02-25T17:13:40.638Z]	<kimhd>	ack blazp
[2020-02-25T17:14:13.219Z]	<identitywoman>	blazp researcher at Institute of Informatics, UM FERI part of a European Union with a pilot as part of several university - where students share blockchain based credentials.
[2020-02-25T17:14:28.313Z]	<jonathan_holt>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:14:31.953Z]	<identitywoman>	blazp: Interested in W3C Standards.
[2020-02-25T17:14:32.076Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-25T17:14:52.353Z]	<identitywoman>	@wayne from terion
[2020-02-25T17:15:08.812Z]	<identitywoman>	CEO of terion developed libraries that is going to be presented today.
[2020-02-25T17:15:21.493Z]	<identitywoman>	Announcements and reminders:
[2020-02-25T17:15:22.194Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-02-25T17:15:29.665Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Announcements and Reminders
[2020-02-25T17:15:55.842Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-02-25T17:15:58.576Z]	<wvaughn>	Kaliya... I didn't do any development on Boltwall or LSATs.js. It was spearheaded by Buck Perley.
[2020-02-25T17:15:59.778Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	http://rwot10.eventbrite.com
[2020-02-25T17:16:05.112Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.knowidentity.com/2020-conference/
[2020-02-25T17:16:12.218Z]	<identitywoman>	DID F2Face happened
[2020-02-25T17:16:36.503Z]	<identitywoman>	the RWoT in Beus Aries
[2020-02-25T17:16:37.453Z]	<kimhd>	IIW: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxx-30-2020a-tickets-79016788341
[2020-02-25T17:16:39.485Z]	<identitywoman>	Know Identity
[2020-02-25T17:16:45.815Z]	<identitywoman>	IIW in Mountain View
[2020-02-25T17:16:51.072Z]	<kimhd>	http://www.cvent.com/d/fhqnf3/4W
[2020-02-25T17:16:53.047Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-25T17:16:57.536Z]	<identitywoman>	9-11 there is identifiers in denver CO
[2020-02-25T17:17:00.605Z]	<identitywoman>	June
[2020-02-25T17:17:05.213Z]	<kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-02-25T17:17:12.299Z]	<blazp>	https://eductx.org/ - blockchain based student's certificates project (EDUcTX); https://ii.feri.um.si/en/person/blaz-podgorelec-2/ - about me (personal webpage) https://www.de4a.eu/ - H2020 project with research and pilot related to SSI and VC https://www.concordia-h2020.eu/ - H2020 project - participate in research related to IDM
[2020-02-25T17:17:21.998Z]	<identitywoman>	@christopherA new proposal for RWoT in TheHague week after berlin blockchain week.
[2020-02-25T17:17:35.366Z]	<identitywoman>	q+
[2020-02-25T17:17:43.213Z]	<kimhd>	ack identitywoman
[2020-02-25T17:18:08.612Z]	<kimhd>	identitywoman: ID4africa first week of June, second week is RightsCon in CostaRica
[2020-02-25T17:18:22.728Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Progress on Action Items
[2020-02-25T17:18:29.287Z]	<identitywoman>	progress on action itmes
[2020-02-25T17:18:36.521Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-02-25T17:19:20.393Z]	<identitywoman>	Kinhd: we want to move to one step publishing
[2020-02-25T17:19:24.260Z]	<gannan>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:19:57.323Z]	<identitywoman>	Kimhd: if we do better work on the call to clean up notes as we go.
[2020-02-25T17:20:37.117Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/meetings/blob/gh-pages/README.md#cleaning-up-the-minutes
[2020-02-25T17:20:46.995Z]	<identitywoman>	kimhd: new saving process will be better.
[2020-02-25T17:21:00.674Z]	<kezike>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:21:15.058Z]	<juancaballero>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:21:16.122Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-02-25T17:22:01.558Z]	<identitywoman>	Kimhd: we have gotten this process a lot more automated.
[2020-02-25T17:22:18.440Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-25T17:22:23.693Z]	<kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-02-25T17:22:49.873Z]	<identitywoman>	Christophera: to share more context it has been taking the chairs. (mostly Kim) several hours to do this after each of the meetings - it is a big deal.
[2020-02-25T17:23:33.740Z]	<identitywoman>	ChristopherA: if you need something changed in the transcripts it needs to be done after the meeting - please notify the chairs.
[2020-02-25T17:24:00.092Z]	<rhiaro>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:24:32.842Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/87
[2020-02-25T17:24:33.962Z]	<identitywoman>	Sip issues
[2020-02-25T17:25:06.393Z]	<identitywoman>	christophera: if you are using sip - please share with you what settings are working with you because
[2020-02-25T17:25:09.153Z]	<rhiaro>	kimhd, ChristopherA: sorry about the delay, I have screenshots for onsip but I lost the text I wrote before I could push it, I just haven't had time to do it again yet
[2020-02-25T17:25:27.954Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/connecting.html
[2020-02-25T17:25:42.084Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-25T17:26:38.197Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Lightning Service Authentication Tokens (LSATs)
[2020-02-25T17:26:52.193Z]	<kimhd>	blog: https://medium.com/tierion/lsats-pseudonymous-authentication-using-bitcoin-lightning-payments-459e209b4b36
[2020-02-25T17:27:08.122Z]	<kimhd>	presentation: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YE5UJk05Q9I2k7hhlM6oSVARGIajPF5u50r1LNCe-x4/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-02-25T17:27:20.434Z]	<wvaughn>	Here are links to the technologies that presented to CCG today. We hope other developers will use them to build applications that use Lighting for payments and authentication.   Boltwall - Bitcoin Lightning paywall and authentication using LSATs. Built with LND, Nodejs, and Typescript. https://github.com/Tierion/boltwall  Boltbox - Easy to deploy and manage lightning infrastructure for software developers https://github.com/Tierion/boltbox  LSAT-js A utility [CUT]
[2020-02-25T17:27:46.333Z]	<wvaughn>	LSAT-js A utility library for working with LSATs (Lightning Service Authentication Tokens) in javascript https://github.com/Tierion/lsat-js
[2020-02-25T17:27:46.368Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: it is built with various technologies.
[2020-02-25T17:27:55.702Z]	<wvaughn>	Announcement Blog Post https://medium.com/tierion/lsats-pseudonymous-authentication-using-bitcoin-lightning-payments-459e209b4b36
[2020-02-25T17:28:11.594Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: has been working with Tierion for the past year working on authentication with lightning as well as blockstack
[2020-02-25T17:28:29.541Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: this is around the 402 status code - one that is unused since originally proposed.
[2020-02-25T17:28:42.800Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: started with home spun version that leveraged macaroons a bit
[2020-02-25T17:29:05.467Z]	<identitywoman>	back: a new format was proposed Lightning service authentication tokens.
[2020-02-25T17:29:31.007Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: slide 2  state of aUth today.
[2020-02-25T17:29:41.395Z]	<kimhd>	Kaliya: feel free to scribe lightly during the presentation -- the slide link is part of the minutes, so people can access the content
[2020-02-25T17:29:49.344Z]	<identitywoman>	ok.
[2020-02-25T17:29:59.433Z]	<identitywoman>	slide 2
[2020-02-25T17:31:19.412Z]	<identitywoman>	Slide 3
[2020-02-25T17:31:32.885Z]	<manu>	q+ to ask if there has been collaboration w/ the Coil folks.
[2020-02-25T17:34:56.463Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-25T17:35:28.417Z]	<identitywoman>	slide 4
[2020-02-25T17:37:11.495Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: the super power comes in chaining capabilities.
[2020-02-25T17:38:50.648Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: Macaroon has its capabilities pre-built in. Decoupled application logic. Decouple policy - from proof (not sure If I got this right).
[2020-02-25T17:38:59.123Z]	<identitywoman>	slide 5
[2020-02-25T17:39:08.364Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+ on use by macaroon/lsat community of authorization vs authentication
[2020-02-25T17:39:36.706Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: using macaroons and native payment system to the internet lets us do a lot of interesting things vs. draw backs
[2020-02-25T17:39:46.206Z]	<manu>	q- later
[2020-02-25T17:40:09.367Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: you could read a bunch of articles payments with cryptocurrency via crypto currency without giving away who you are
[2020-02-25T17:40:54.465Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: at Teiron we are using it so that machines can pay for things. M2M automated set up. Sybil resistance is built in . Protocol level distribution. share and attenuate the privileges.
[2020-02-25T17:41:06.293Z]	<manu>	voip: mute 71f
[2020-02-25T17:41:14.393Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-02-25T17:41:21.913Z]	<identitywoman>	slide 6
[2020-02-25T17:41:48.362Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: 402 payment required - this has been here since the beginning but not leveraged until today.
[2020-02-25T17:42:25.035Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: payment headers LSAT  - to reply with requirements
[2020-02-25T17:42:36.035Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: payment now authorized.
[2020-02-25T17:42:42.383Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: on the other side is lighting.
[2020-02-25T17:43:05.233Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: Bolt 11 is a group of proposals published and debated there.
[2020-02-25T17:43:19.298Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: it is formatting around invoicing and payment requests.
[2020-02-25T17:43:48.068Z]	<identitywoman>	that node has to send you an invoice which the  nature of the payments.
[2020-02-25T17:44:37.159Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: pre-image in the invoice and returned when payment is made.
[2020-02-25T17:44:48.799Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: HTL hashed time locked contract.
[2020-02-25T17:45:16.820Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: Layer2 protocols - contracts that are negotiated and re-negotiated. Pre-image payment hash exchange.
[2020-02-25T17:45:42.701Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: when you get that pre-image proof of payment that is proof that you were paid.
[2020-02-25T17:45:46.793Z]	<identitywoman>	slide 7
[2020-02-25T17:46:03.094Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: diagram on how the protocol and exchange mechanism works.
[2020-02-25T17:46:48.934Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: macaroon is going to include payment information   what is needed to get paid. and ycu can add other thing.
[2020-02-25T17:48:10.258Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: the paying of the invoice can happen totally out of band between client and server. Not from same device.
[2020-02-25T17:48:19.500Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: all that is required is that that invoice get paid.
[2020-02-25T17:48:51.543Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: if you get the pre-image gets added into the
[2020-02-25T17:49:08.161Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: you could pay for someone else and delegate.
[2020-02-25T17:49:21.013Z]	<manu>	q+ to ask about the structure of the macaroon, are they still HMACS? is it different from Tony Arcieri's versions from many years ago? How large are they?
[2020-02-25T17:49:23.134Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: this has a day's worth of access and give it to someone else.
[2020-02-25T17:49:49.313Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: read out question.
[2020-02-25T17:50:11.967Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: answer - very similar what i use is comparable with google version.
[2020-02-25T17:50:44.704Z]	<manu>	q- manu
[2020-02-25T17:50:46.022Z]	<manu>	q- manu
[2020-02-25T17:50:51.048Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: compatability  is a nice feature not inventing things new.
[2020-02-25T17:51:18.218Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: Macaroon serialization format is the same as it has been for many years.
[2020-02-25T17:51:30.833Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: LSAT implements common Macaroon format.
[2020-02-25T17:51:34.793Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q+ to ask about root key when ready for questions
[2020-02-25T17:51:41.425Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: need commitment to invoice payment hash.
[2020-02-25T17:51:49.064Z]	<manu>	q+ to mention Coil, the Web Payments HTTP API (which attempted to define HTTP 402), how is attenuation done?, are invoices generated per request?
[2020-02-25T17:52:00.567Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: there is an identifier used to build each macaroon and a format to include the payment hash in each macaroon.
[2020-02-25T17:52:34.148Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: if you are adding the pre-image even if you don't have access to lighting node. You know invoice associated with LSAT has been paid.
[2020-02-25T17:53:06.117Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: LSAT has a versioned identifier if you are storing them in a database. so you can update the serialization format
[2020-02-25T17:53:15.568Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: it is getting finalized in next couple weeks.
[2020-02-25T17:53:30.879Z]	<manu>	q- manu
[2020-02-25T17:53:33.218Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: We can add all sorts of flexibility on top of LSATs
[2020-02-25T17:53:40.833Z]	<manu>	q+ to mention Coil, the Web Payments HTTP API (which attempted to define HTTP 402), how is attenuation done?, are invoices generated per request, how are caveats specified?
[2020-02-25T17:54:27.420Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: must match the keys
[2020-02-25T17:54:44.667Z]	<identitywoman>	slide 20
[2020-02-25T17:55:15.274Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: for pay as you go - get back macaroon with invoice get pre-image back - send LSAT token back to get access to post.
[2020-02-25T17:55:37.564Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: HODL invoices can replace AWS
[2020-02-25T17:56:13.166Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: how to implement invoices in lighting.
[2020-02-25T17:56:43.108Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: its a one time use token.
[2020-02-25T17:56:53.873Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-25T17:56:58.764Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: a fully paid payment can become not valid
[2020-02-25T17:57:21.227Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: push subscriptions..service has to send new invoice when you pay for access.
[2020-02-25T17:57:44.333Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: decentralized oAuth with 3rd party caveats.
[2020-02-25T17:57:58.933Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: you can have a platform or service that they have been paid.
[2020-02-25T17:58:32.596Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: instead of Medium.com getting pay out every month - more immediate.
[2020-02-25T17:58:49.519Z]	<identitywoman>	slide 10
[2020-02-25T17:59:21.323Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: built in paywall solution BOLTWALL (single line) then you have a protection and will take care of the hand shake.
[2020-02-25T18:00:11.477Z]	<wvaughn>	Boltbox - Easy to deploy and manage lightning infrastructure for software developers https://github.com/Tierion/boltbox
[2020-02-25T18:00:28.597Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: LSAT playground you can go to a link in the slide
[2020-02-25T18:00:50.525Z]	<manu>	All this stuff is great, buck, thank you for presenting! :)
[2020-02-25T18:00:58.575Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: explore LSATs in the browser - pay for access to pokemon API
[2020-02-25T18:01:13.273Z]	<manu>	This stuff reminds me a lot of the stuff that the Coil folks are doing through the W3C Web Payments WG: https://www.w3.org/blog/2019/09/w3c-interview-coil-on-interledger-protocol-and-web-monetization/
[2020-02-25T18:01:31.042Z]	<manu>	We did attempt to define HTTP 402 a number of years ago (and failed): https://www.w3.org/TR/2016/WD-webpayments-http-api-20160915/#introduction
[2020-02-25T18:01:46.847Z]	<manu>	Also, would like your thoughts on: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/zcap-ld/
[2020-02-25T18:01:55.256Z]	<kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-02-25T18:02:17.800Z]	<identitywoman>	christopher: wanted to say this is 2nd in a series of requirements and examples of directed capabilities technologies.
[2020-02-25T18:02:42.661Z]	<identitywoman>	christopher: had a question mixed use of terms authentication and authorization (We are trying to more clearly separate these in this community ).
[2020-02-25T18:03:01.155Z]	<identitywoman>	christopher: 402 ask for authentication but reply with no I'm going to authorize.
[2020-02-25T18:03:18.453Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: the community is around LSAT is really small - me and a couple engineers from lighting labs.
[2020-02-25T18:03:41.174Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: authentication you pay a very small amount - sybil resistance that proves who you are and use it as a login.
[2020-02-25T18:04:00.034Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: in chain point and the way in bolt wall is bing used is on authorization - do I have permission to submit this hash.
[2020-02-25T18:04:11.066Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: it is not being entirely separated could use both use-cases.
[2020-02-25T18:04:24.197Z]	<kimhd>	ack jonathan_holt
[2020-02-25T18:04:53.537Z]	<identitywoman>	jonathan_holt: question on third party validation making macaroon depends on a client-server. how to have 3rd party delegation.
[2020-02-25T18:05:33.318Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: what about using lightning using distributed KPI out of the box with lighting. Every lighting node can identify via routing tables they maintain.
[2020-02-25T18:06:07.668Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: public key associated with lighting node is like a real world ID because it is connected to payment channels.
[2020-02-25T18:06:47.264Z]	<identitywoman>	buck: 2nd caveat made by key and lighting node (Sorry this is hard to track).
[2020-02-25T18:07:13.273Z]	<identitywoman>	thank you buck for joining us for this presentation.
[2020-02-25T18:07:18.621Z]	<wvaughn>	<applause for Buck>
[2020-02-25T18:07:21.244Z]	<AnthonyRonning>	thanks buck!
[2020-02-25T18:07:43.826Z]	<manu>	voip: connections?
[2020-02-25T18:07:50.340Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 6fa
[2020-02-25T18:07:53.461Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 6fe
[2020-02-25T18:07:55.054Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 6ff
[2020-02-25T18:07:59.540Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 70c
[2020-02-25T18:08:03.687Z]	<kimhd>	present+ AnthonyRonning, bigbluehat, blazp, buck, ChristopherA, dlehn, dlongley, dmitriz, fr33domlover, gannan, Gargron, identitywoman, JoeAndrieu, jonathan_holt, juancaballero, Justin_R, kezike, kimhd, llorllale, manu, markus_sabadello, Orie, ottonomy, rhiaro, stonematt, sumita, Tom_S__-_USAA, tzviya, voip-ccg, wayne, wvaughn
[2020-02-25T18:08:04.161Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 71b
[2020-02-25T18:08:05.658Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 71e
