Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-10-17-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-10-17-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-10-17

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Oct&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Coran, Benjamin Collins, Chris Abernethy, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, 
  Russell H (mesur.io), Orie Steele, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau 
  (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Arun, Ted Thibodeau

<mahmoud_alkhraishi> Do you want to call off today?
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> sorry audio issues rn
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Chris Abernethy:  The only one that objected to being 
  misrepresented with curse words.
Benjamin Collins:  Yeah oh and then the other thing is it doesn't 
  transfer hardness and if he's not here that might be okay.
Benjamin Collins:  All right so we're going to go ahead and start 
  with traceability interrupt.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/597
Benjamin Collins:  And go ahead and Link it in chat just in 
  general and let's start from the end so there's five nine five 
  which is open from this it is still in draft this isn't here so 
  I'm going to go ahead and skip over to 597 Christ.
Chris Abernethy:  So 597 this is the modification of the 
  conformance testing for duplicate items in a request to issue a 
  credential and initially I had it bombing or it's like expecting 
  for the issuer to bomb but after some back and forth we clarify 
  their what we would really like to do is make sure that folks are 
  taking.
Chris Abernethy:  Approach which is to accept the last specified 
  of a number of duplicate keys so this test now specifies one 
  issue or that's invalid followed by the expected issuer it make 
  sure the test doesn't Bomb It returns a 2001 created and the 
  issuer in the response is the same as the second specified issuer 
  in the request.
Benjamin Collins:  I'm gonna you know I was realizing that I see 
  her talking let's see if I can try recording again.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Chris Abernethy:  Sure there we go.
Benjamin Collins:  I'll transcribers here preparing to record the 
  meeting.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay alright I guess we'll just have to go 
  with Anna Bridge audio recording then.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay that's for five nights seven it looks 
  like there are three approvals so I guess should we go in merge.
Chris Abernethy:  That would be.
Benjamin Collins:  Alright merch and I guess go ahead and delete 
  the branch as well so it deletes awesome.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/600
Benjamin Collins:  And this one is next one is 600 from Russell.
Chris Abernethy:  I may be able to speak to this I don't recall 
  why this was not merged.
Benjamin Collins:  I think Corey had feedback on this last week 
  and it looks like Russell accepted the changes and or you approve 
  the changes so we can go ahead and merge this.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/601
Benjamin Collins:  Okay and then the last one on interrupt is 
  also from Chris it looks pretty straightforward.
Chris Abernethy:  Which one we're talking about 600.
Benjamin Collins:  601 Look looks like.
Chris Abernethy:  600 Yeah that was a simple thing that I noticed 
  while I was trying to record the meeting last week one of the 
  links was broken.
Benjamin Collins:  I got to say this is extremely not come 
  controversial.
Benjamin Collins:  And let's go ahead and merge that and then 
  switching over to traceability vocab or quests.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/889
Benjamin Collins:  Three and all of them should be pretty 
  straightforward Miss DPP title or a nine looks like this is a 
  spelling mistake where data carrier was accidentally added into 
  the credential name.
Benjamin Collins:  3 Approvals so small typo merging.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/890
Benjamin Collins:  Delete the branch the next one is at Max Max 
  link to base64 images this is from me I think this was born out 
  by Red Team where you could have an attack that were the image 
  could be extremely long and that would force you to sign it so 
  this is just placing a 500 KB excise on images which are more 
  intended to be smaller icons rather than some.
Benjamin Collins:   I'm like 10 GB image.
Benjamin Collins:  So this should be pretty non-controversial and 
  if there's you know issues with the image sizes you know 
  depending on formats we can probably adjust it but I just kind of 
  wanted to set the bar somewhere and then we can move the bar 
  long.
<orie> sry im late
Chris Abernethy:  One thing is I can't seem to see the changes in 
  the agricultural canine card.
Benjamin Collins:  Oh that's that's going to be a long distance 
  so what happened there was there are two images that were like 
  stupidly big and I had to cut them out like one was an 800 KB 
  image the other one was like a 300 KB image and I made those 
  smaller and so the diff is just going to be that they 64 
  difference.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/891
Benjamin Collins:  Okay and the last one for pull request is 891.
Benjamin Collins:  And this is just.
Benjamin Collins:  And issue a ct/pet locations in this just kind 
  of more of the same adding constraints around credentials that 
  there's no infinite amount of size that they have to get cap 
  somewhere and this is just something that our test was realized 
  that as they were using the form they could just add an infinite 
  number of array items and so the idea is we would want to cap it 
  somewhere that's above any realistic limit.
Benjamin Collins:   It and just to keep the data size.
Chris Abernethy:  I think that makes sense to me I think if 
  anyone would like a different limit we could make a separate PR 
  for that and I think the only person who commented was Mahmoud.
Benjamin Collins:  And so yeah it's just kind of like bidding you 
  have to set it somewhere and move it up and down but you know it 
  needs to start somewhere.
Benjamin Collins:  Let's see Christopher to anymore approvals on 
  891.
<orie> link?
<orie> I will approve if there is a link : )
Benjamin Collins:  I guess not but if we get more approval so 
  I'll go ahead and just merge that out-of-band if there's more 
  than two.
Chris Abernethy:  Or your mic muted be great if you guys yeah 
  thank you.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay all right.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/891
Orie Steele:  Link the thing you want approvals on in the chat 
  sorry if you did that already.
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah it's a little bit higher above.
<coran> Last time you all mentioned to not have questions at the 
  end if possible. Let me know when the appropriate time to discuss 
  them are please.
Benjamin Collins:  Approvals all right not controversial and 
  alright that's it for poor Quest we went through Trade Center up 
  and we went through Trace vocab for pull request and now we have 
  more people on board so I guess we can go back to a normal call 
  so let's see in terms of agenda items I think Chris you wanted to 
  address some.
Benjamin Collins:  And then calls.
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah I just have one pending clothes and it's 
  only like six issues down so I think we'll get to it no problem.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay so do we just want to go through the 
  standard go through issues on traceability in a row.
Benjamin Collins:  All right so we're least recently updated.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Benjamin Collins:  All right let's get started with 496.
Benjamin Collins:  So 496 is opened by Chris do you want to go 
  ahead and take this one.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/496
Chris Abernethy:  I'm sure this was another one of the things 
  that or a called out I think it's not having issues referenced in 
  the spec so I created this issue for Section 811 it looks like we 
  had some discussion back and forth.
Chris Abernethy:  This was looking for volunteers in August and 
  then he indicated he did some work and kicked it back to me to 
  re-review so I'm going to go ahead and assign this to myself I 
  have not done any work on this yet but it will be on my radar if 
  it's assigned to me.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/531
Benjamin Collins:  Okay I can see it's been self-esteem and we 
  can go ahead and move on to 531.
Benjamin Collins:  This is from my mode right yes.
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> ywa
Benjamin Collins:  Marissa is having audio issues do you want to 
  type in chat.
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> yes*
Benjamin Collins:  Okay so having audio issues I'll go ahead and 
  continue talking then we should move CVP specific portfolios 
  example to the appendix and it's like created generic workflow 
  example to make this a more inclusive so this is a pull request 
  or an issue to not make it CBP specific nice opened a PR out of 
  this and the come from Rico were flows are in vocab who's up here 
  and then another ping to.
Benjamin Collins:   So has this been resolved or search the work 
  to be done.
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> still work to be odne i believe
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> I will respond on the issue with details
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> if not i'll close it
Benjamin Collins:  Stewart to be done okay can you make any 
  changes of yeah respond on the issue.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay alright so if that's the case let's go 
  ahead and move on to the.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/589
Benjamin Collins:  Next Issue which is from.
Benjamin Collins:  It's pretty which is from manip let's see or 
  if you want to comment on this.
Benjamin Collins:  I can read out.
Orie Steele:  I think this is discussed last time it's related to 
  the apis BC API stuff.
Orie Steele:  Also related to the hold it off exchange flows 
  stuff that we are not actually using anymore.
Orie Steele:  So the comment that this left is still accurate 
  pending input from Maven net and measure.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay so we're waiting for more comments to be 
  added onto the issue.
Benjamin Collins:  Do you want to sing any one specific on the 
  issue.
Orie Steele:  Yes on the issue I think you should ping Mahmood 
  and Chris Christie you the right point of contact to Ping on 
  things that I would have bothered Mike with.
Chris Abernethy:  I think that's probably the best yet.
Orie Steele:  Okay so pink my mood pink rest ask for them to 
  comment on it so it says transmitted and measure here so it's 
  really just my mood at this point I would just paying him and say 
  please comment on this.
Orie Steele:  Yeah if any if he wants to discuss I'm happy to 
  discuss.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/552
Benjamin Collins:  All right we can go doubt that was 589 then 
  ice one is my fight too this is from miss this is make an intro 
  test based on a gs1 credential this is marked raise PR so I think 
  this is just.
Benjamin Collins:  Nest to make updates to it.
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah this looks like Mists draft PR.
Benjamin Collins:  And I will just make a nothing Burger coming 
  just to show that we looked at it and just a touch it.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/483
Benjamin Collins:  Messages should be your pick this is from a 
  mood this is for a 3.
Benjamin Collins:  Good as close this fixed end 569 so is this 
  good to close now.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Are you working now awesome.
Benjamin Collins:  So the last coming on this is it close so we 
  just go ahead and close it then.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah I'm going to I feel like.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/574
Benjamin Collins:  Content type and hetero Quest next lens 574 
  which one is from Russell.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): This is I have not made progress on this I 
  think the next step is to follow through with that key I made in 
  the Upstream repo because I guess I'm not sure what the status is 
  of that refund looks like there hasn't been work on it the last 
  month or so.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): I can I can do that.
Orie Steele:  Are you you asking about the w3c verifiable 
  credentials working group test Suite Repository.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): The VC Jose Costa a test Suite.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): Yeah yeah so.
Orie Steele:  Yeah you're making the same comment you made last 
  time which doesn't seem like there's much activity there so I'm 
  going to make the same comment I made last time that's because 
  you are not contributing their its nest wheat you needs needs 
  contributions I think the working group has progressed documents 
  to the point where we should see updates to that test Suite soon 
  but we could also be the change we want to see in the world on 
  that front I'm happy to help however I can.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): Yeah thank you that's my next step then.
Chris Abernethy:  Is this Russell just to clarify is this another 
  case where we're really talking about is the accept header.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): Yes yeah I'll just edit the caption.
Chris Abernethy:  Sweets thank you.
Benjamin Collins:  All right so do we want to change the title 
  except to request header no do we want to add any comments in 
  terms of contributing to the Upstream repo.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): Yeah I can add a just still needs to be 
  done I think I think things stand like already said as they did.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): Yeah that coming.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/584
Benjamin Collins:  Okay and now we get to Chris's pending clothes 
  issue.
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah this one has been fixed this is done so we 
  can just close it.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay next one is.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/482
Benjamin Collins:  So we have take the fastest 2021 issue for 82.
Chris Abernethy:  And I believe we put this off pending VC 2.0 
  upgrade.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay and it has the label for VC 2.0 upgrade I 
  think that's okay for now.
Benjamin Collins:  Is there any comments you want to make or do 
  we just want to run and say that the VC 2.0 upgrade tag spices.
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah I think we should make a comment just so 
  it doesn't show up in two weeks although there aren't that many 
  issues.
Benjamin Collins:  Let me see ya then number of issues aren't 
  that many so I kind of would prefer to avoid leaving you know 
  useless comments like pink touched on call.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/543
Benjamin Collins:  Okay so the next one is normatively defining 
  service endpoints.
Benjamin Collins:  And it's this one from this is Christina 
  right.
Benjamin Collins:  And looks like Russell this oh this is 
  assigned to it but Russell's Russell said this is working on it 
  okay.
Benjamin Collins:  So we see oh this is another one still waiting 
  for this.
Benjamin Collins:  And I guess the work to be done here is just 
  updates the respect document.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay all right.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/544
Benjamin Collins:  So the next one is who initiates the 
  interaction this one is 544.
Benjamin Collins:  This is also from Christina and then this is 
  also assigned to this so.
Benjamin Collins:  Let's see if we can ping this internally and 
  start moving that along.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/562
Benjamin Collins:  And next one is 562.
Benjamin Collins:  I don't remember.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah this one was about removing our 
  instruments in Detroit I believe.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  OU Qing Mian I just throw it out there okay 
  I missed that other impression that this was basically in Canada 
  but I can go ahead and get that done.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay it's Turtle update and then my mind is 
  still assigned.
Benjamin Collins:  Low JWT and credentials verify.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/453
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah this one's been assigned to me for a while 
  and I have not had a chance to work on it but it is still on my 
  list.
Benjamin Collins:  Okay looks like there's not a lot of debate on 
  these it just seems like we're waiting for bandwidth.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah I feel like that's been the case for a 
  little bit on the trains and trucks I'd everything seems pretty 
  straightforward and we've got them down to where we have 20 
  something right I feel like for the most part they're either 
  already for PR or basically anything from you.
Benjamin Collins:  The threat any agenda changes we want to 
  switch up for today because it kind of just seems like we're 
  going through each one and say yep yep yep or so anything any 
  discussion or also a rune and Cora are on the call were there any 
  questions that they had the didn't get to last time.
Arun: Yeah we do have a few questions I think current will walk 
  through those questions sure hey guys did you guys take a look at 
  60 to my computer temporarily dropped the the connection on me so 
  the presentation notify request our education and request body 
  did you guys see that issue.
Benjamin Collins: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/602
Chris Abernethy:  I see that the end of the list we have not 
  discussed yet.
Arun: I'm sorry say again.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Hey do you want to walk us through it we can 
  go through it.
Arun: Is please so the idea behind that one is that when a 
  presentation notifies being sent I would like to kind of have a 
  caller ID I like to know when visual is or What entity is sending 
  me that information or in sending me that request so that when I 
  return the challenge to them one I know who it is I'm sending it 
  to and to once the individual uses that or which some entity 
  utilizes that challenge in the future.
Arun:  I want to make sure that.
Arun: All right that entity is the same one I initially said that 
  challenge to in the first place and I think that would be a good 
  security enhancement just for us to kind of have that second 
  layer of hey these people are the ones who are giving me this 
  challenge back and here are other groups that may be having some 
  issue with their own systems where there may be not getting 
  something back the liking the challenge back the way they need to 
  or not you.
Arun:  descend to me the way they need to and I can keep track of 
  which instruction.
Arun: Or having trouble so that was the the general idea behind 
  that that issue.
Arun: Does that make sense.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah I think one of the things here is.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Everything on the traceability of Pi is 
  going to be I believe we've removed the did off requirements in 
  general right I don't know if I've missing.
Orie Steele:  Talked about it I don't think the spec has been 
  updated and the endpoints might still exist in the open API 
  specification as well it's related to the several previous issues 
  we discussed regarding this.
Orie Steele:  Like for example it's related to the presentations 
  available presentation submission flow like that's the same flow 
  that they're talking about.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah and I'm looking at the Spectra no one 
  is there.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think we've had brought agreement under 
  called to remove that flow and I think it's just one of those 
  things that we haven't gotten around to yet so while I think that 
  would be a welcome addition to the general flow I don't believe 
  this is even the place to do it because I think the spec itself 
  for the did presentation is where we would include this 
  modification rather than in the traceability API.
Arun: Are you doing the the content of that notify API be 
  modified so that the information of requester is embedded inside.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vp-request-spec/#query-by-frame
<orie> ^ yep
<orie> thats the spec where you might make that suggestion
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  No no my suggestion is the changes that 
  you're asking for they don't believe they belong in this spec in 
  the first place I think what you're actually asking for is a 
  change to this fact that you are referencing which I want to put 
  in shot right now it's this one and all we're doing is here we 
  are taking it directly from that spec and applying them so unless 
  there's an.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   Upstream change to that Speck.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I don't think it makes sense for us to have 
  a specific.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  You know anymore.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Walk down version of it.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   But I'm.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Be prepared for anyone.
Orie Steele:  No I think that's accurate I guess the one other 
  thing I might share is the identity credential.
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/WICG/identity-credential/issues/31#issuecomment-1750610560
Orie Steele:  Query language is repo it's also like this repo 
  over here the browser vendors are working on together has 
  comments on the same VP requests back detail you know so you 
  might get good engagement from commenting on that issue 31 on the 
  wick CG.
Orie Steele:  It's not a thing like we're not in control.
Coran: Hey guys I'm really sorry like both our laptops gave up on 
  us and we are really having trouble joining these calls from our 
  laptops we joined in from mobile device but the last as we heard 
  was you did mention like this is not the right place for us to 
  discuss I was curious why why is that because our understanding 
  was.
Coran:  like VP engine.
Coran: Is a way for us to exchange the credentials across parties 
  rights by in this case what we want to make sure is that the 
  person who is requesting so let's notify and submit we understand 
  that incorrect again characters if we are wrong because we have 
  been trying to find this information and there is very little 
  that we can infer based on the available documentation our 
  understanding is that the notify is a way for.
Coran:  us to informed.
Coran: But he died we have a VC and that's why are we started 
  thinking why not the API make provision for other person to know 
  who who is the Notifier.
Coran: So the only other option is through the client ID and the 
  secret or maybe any other authentication parameters like only the 
  known set of participants would notify us and based on those odd 
  parameters we are able to figure out who the requester is.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah so on the the reason why we're saying 
  this is not the right place for it is because we are not in 
  control of the video requests back at all and that specification 
  itself is what we're just applying directly here so if you would 
  like to make a change so while I agree with what you're trying to 
  say if you're trying to.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   Make that change.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vp-request-spec/
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Go directly to the Veep your prospect think 
  the best way to do it would probably be to open an issue this 
  GitHub I'm still here and then have a thing one of the editors on 
  that stack I believe they do not have a running call but that's 
  fine but I'm sure they're very like I know everybody on that and 
  it wasn't.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   Are all usually very good.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So what I'm going to suggest is open issue 
  directly on that GitHub repository and communicate with them and 
  then they'll be able to help you out but this is not something 
  that we can we're just applying this fact directly or not 
  actually able to modify it on this call.
Coran: Got it on the same topic right since you said you're 
  working on applying that spanked we do have questions on applying 
  the spec as well so in terms of the this the same each day for 
  instance to notify Pi we observed that the API is supposed to 
  send information such as query by example or query by frame we 
  can we find that requirement precisely we have been trying to get 
  what are the.
Coran:  possible values in how are we supposed to.
Coran: Meaning out of it and we are failing to do that probably 
  like we are not finding complete information there are examples 
  though like we don't know how those examples came by.
Orie Steele: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vp-request-spec/#query-by-frame
Orie Steele:  So I think that's the VP request back is the Vance 
  that's the posted in the chat but it's a different community 
  group work item.
Orie Steele:  So if you're looking for details regarding that 
  particular specification that work item has its own repository I 
  don't think it has active working group calls could be wrong 
  about that and you can certainly reach out to the mailing list 
  the top of the document any with any questions regarding the 
  specification.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I will also add that your question about 
  quail eggs up on clear by frame is in that Speck under Section 2 
  where they talk about you know it does need work I agree with you 
  there's a lot of things that are missing their but I think as I 
  was saying this is one of those things where it's probably best 
  to send out an email to the mailing list and have them respond 
  directly to you.
Coran: Got it thanks you thank you for addressing those okay do 
  you actually think that this is the correct body for the rest of 
  our questions than I do I do want to bring up the status as well 
  so the other question is about I know in not with respect to v p 
  but with respect to credential itself there is an API for 
  updating the status right or so one of the question that we are 
  facing is so initially when the.
Coran:  angel is issued.
Coran: It also can have optionally the status parameter inside 
  that but when the status is updated do we need to reissue the 
  status is that how the what the expectation is.
Orie Steele: https://github.com/w3c/vc-status-list-2021
Orie Steele:  Yeah and in general if you change any of the status 
  bits you'll need to update the status List It string but again 
  that specification is managed by a different group than us so 
  I've shared the link to that status list 2021 and if you look at 
  the the specification you'll see that there's a mailing list for 
  this this best.
Orie Steele:   Vacation and you can ask.
Orie Steele:  Questions about that specification on the mailing 
  list although it's weird I don't see it.
Orie Steele:  No actual verifiable credentials working group 
  document I don't see a mailing list directly listed there.
Orie Steele:  It should be there should be a mailing list.
Orie Steele:  For that one as well.
Orie Steele: https://github.com/w3c/vc-status-list-2021
Coran: So I mean based on what you just said and based on that 
  status by parameters are you suggesting that we'll have to 
  reshoot every convention that was previously Shield.
Orie Steele:  Oh no no no just the status list credential so the 
  B string changes for potentially all of the credentials that are 
  in that block every time that b string changes you might reissue 
  but you might also just wait until that status list is requested 
  and then issue once at that point in time you don't need to 
  reissue.
Orie Steele:   Every revocable.
Orie Steele:  V credential if it's status changes that's the 
  design is intentionally so that you don't need to do that.
Coran: Got a so there is a status list credential that keeps to 
  that needs to be updated all the time and if at all somebody is 
  making a query for this particular credential that we are aware 
  of which has changes status that's the time for us to reissue 
  possibly.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Is one option as I was saying the other 
  option is to at the time of replication reissue that statuses 
  this will entirely depend on your use case and you expect to 
  manage this you know how often people are retrieving yourselves 
  as potential often you expect to manage it but the 
  straightforward approach is and I mean straight forward as in 
  this is the simplest one to wrap your head around is when.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   When you.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Credential on a status list you issue a new 
  substance now whether you're doing that when they're trying to 
  fetch it for whether you're doing that the second year ago is in 
  one dacian detail that is entirely up to you is that.
<tallted> verifiable credentials working group mailing list -- 
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-wg/
Coran: It makes sense.
<orie> ^ yep, thats the right list
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  No I was asking if that makes sense and you 
  said it does and Ted just shared in the chat they link to the 
  public mailing list for the Republican National working group so 
  feel free to ask any detailed.
<orie> the list in the github repo is not correct.
Coran: Okay thank you we do have a few more questions I know like 
  I've been asking so many questions but I'm I can say precisely 
  that discourage these answers are really helping us so if you 
  don't mind maybe the next question is with respect to so.
Coran:  we see like the.
Coran: Suffocation as we understand on this call has been like 
  it's continuously being enhanced right is there a point 
  checkpoint for us to say like this this is the final requirement 
  and what we are probably going to say is the bug fixes but not 
  necessarily a requirement change to the specification one thing 
  that we don't want to end up in as like we add some feature or we 
  make some design assumption.
Coran: Turns out that design assumption has now changed for some 
  reason.
Orie Steele:  So the documents in question within this call or 
  community group drafts and in general they should only be cited 
  as work in progress they're entirely unstable and use them at 
  your own risk.
Coran: Okay do we have any sort of ETA or any kind of idea when a 
  stable version would is projected to be at least and you always 
  Minds.
Orie Steele:  No I think if you're looking for stability here you 
  should look at the verifiable credentials working group and its 
  documents those are documents that are in a formal process and 
  they have sort of formal deliverable due dates where they're 
  either making it or they're not by that date and assuming that 
  they make it at that date then they become kind of reliable to 
  implement it that point.
Orie Steele:  But Community groups and Community groups are very 
  different than formal working groups at w3c study should be cost 
  implementing community group work.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/217
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Also I go or is point and I'll also add that 
  we have discussed roadmap Concept in the past and idea of 
  versioning idea of where we want to go I linked an issue where 
  we've had that conversation maybe that'll help you get a rough 
  idea of what at least we were thinking at a point in time I don't 
  know how up to date that thread is I'm not even sure it is but I 
  do but everything.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   That or he's dead.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Is 100% accurate with regards to what you 
  should rely on and how much you should rely on it right the 
  community group draft is not Final in any shape or form and you 
  should really not be locking down your decisions based on.
Coran: So that raises a curious question right so since this call 
  is about interop and what we are trying to build together lays 
  have those agents or Services which could work with each other 
  how do we decide on something like as a as a group or Community 
  like we all agree and let's have this looks like implemented.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So a big part of that is would encourage you 
  to come join these calls on a regular basis so you can have a lot 
  of input pin how the spec is modified how the API is determined 
  and how we settle on what exactly interrupt means for us this is 
  again an open call them anybody is more than welcome to join as 
  long as they're a member of the ccg the other thing that I.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   I will say is that.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Regular interoperability tests that are 
  occurring and if this is something that you guys would like to 
  join there is a document that we have set up on steps on how to 
  join right so if this is something that sounds appealing to you 
  way to continuously test your integration a way for you to 
  actually contribute and to help shape the way the spec works 
  please take a look at that and I'm trying to I don't know if 
  anybody else has pulled it up yet I'm trying to play.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   And it right now.
Coran: All right I can do we have any other questions so while 
  you're looking up that would you happen to be able to point us 
  toward the sort of source of Truth or with the most up-to-date 
  inputs and outputs are expected for the apis so that we can just 
  stay on top of the lacing plays changes.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  The latest is you will need to run again so 
  this test we that we have running against the traceability 
  interrupt runs Nightwing and it tests against our latest tests 
  for it the reports are generated regularly and I'm trying to 
  find.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  And how to join instructions and then for 
  some reason my bed is gonna let me find it if anybody else has it 
  please stupid Lincoln.
Coran: Is this big test suit that suit registration for APS.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/openapi/
Chris Abernethy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/blob/main/environment-setup/README.md
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes yes also the actual latest spec is the 
  spec that is linked to from the GitHub repo which is the which is 
  one that I have linked right there and Chris thank you for 
  linking the how to set up your environment which is how to get 
  added to these test Suites so our recommendation to make sure 
  that you're always in line with the latest version is to be added 
  to the test Suite where you can see at.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   A minimum of a nightly.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  How complaint you are but my stronger 
  recommendation is to please join these calls regularly and please 
  contribute and help shape what you want the API to look like so 
  that we can build something that helps the most users so this is 
  something that is appealing to you something that you believe 
  will have value please come.
Coran: Awesome appreciate the invitation thank you Mama all right 
  thank you guys so much we greatly appreciate all all of your 
  answers.
<orie> thanks for joining us
Benjamin Collins:  I am glad we allocated call time to do that 
  and thanks for ya Samira worry thanks for helping on the calls.
Chris Abernethy:  Before we sign off can I make a suggestion 
  should we should we add an issue to remove the do dot stuff.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I believe we definitely should if we don't 
  have one already we should remove it we should.
Chris Abernethy:  I took a look through and I didn't see it but I 
  may have just missed it.
Chris Abernethy:  I'm happy to add one.
Chris Abernethy:  That'd be great.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So what I'll do Chris is if you've already 
  gone through it once I'll go through it again and if I don't find 
  it I'll just get an issue because it's either really labeled or 
  we just can't find it right.
Chris Abernethy:  And I'm happy to do the meeting minutes again 
  today.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thank you everyone Ben was there anything 
  else that we.
Benjamin Collins:  No I think that's good I think I just need to 
  make sure to kick everyone stop recording and then make sure I 
  end the call one on the last personal.
Chris Abernethy:  All right okay I guess.
