[2020-07-28T15:59:36.072Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-07-28T15:59:46.113Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:02:13.183Z]	<Christoph_Schneider>	Hello?
[2020-07-28T16:02:34.250Z]	<wayne>	hi there
[2020-07-28T16:02:59.374Z]	<Christoph_Schneider>	Hi :-) I am a little bit lost - how does this conference work?
[2020-07-28T16:03:07.147Z]	<wayne>	Christoph_Schneider: we will get going momentarily
[2020-07-28T16:03:24.169Z]	<Christoph_Schneider>	OK
[2020-07-28T16:03:48.100Z]	<wayne>	i think there is an ongoing IETF event, which may make some people late
[2020-07-28T16:04:23.026Z]	<Balazs>	+present
[2020-07-28T16:04:35.369Z]	<markus_sabadello>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:04:51.299Z]	<Balazs>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:04:53.662Z]	<Geun-Hyung_>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:05:11.265Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:05:28.189Z]	<brent>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:05:43.170Z]	<Orie>	I cna scribe
[2020-07-28T16:05:50.540Z]	<wayne>	scribe+ Orie
[2020-07-28T16:05:52.049Z]	<Orie>	scribe+
[2020-07-28T16:06:08.943Z]	<Orie>	Topic: Introductions
[2020-07-28T16:06:28.823Z]	<Orie>	wayne: anyone new want to introduce themselves?
[2020-07-28T16:06:53.310Z]	<Orie>	Topic: Reintroductions
[2020-07-28T16:07:26.833Z]	<Orie>	wayne: dlongley, brent?
[2020-07-28T16:07:26.977Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:07:56.764Z]	<jonathan_holt>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:08:06.395Z]	<manu>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:08:14.135Z]	<Orie>	brent: I am brent zundel, I am software architecture, crypto / standards guy at everynym.... been in the community for years now... chair of the did spec...
[2020-07-28T16:08:45.891Z]	<Orie>	margo: I work with transmute, head of product, work with orie, karyl and guillaume... focused on global supply chain
[2020-07-28T16:08:59.585Z]	<Orie>	Topic: announcements and reminders
[2020-07-28T16:09:03.619Z]	<wayne>	 product, work with orie, karyl and
[2020-07-28T16:09:08.371Z]	<wayne>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-07-28T16:09:16.753Z]	<identitywoman>	q+
[2020-07-28T16:09:16.790Z]	<Orie>	wayne: identiverse is still happening
[2020-07-28T16:09:44.010Z]	<wayne>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/145
[2020-07-28T16:09:54.972Z]	<Orie>	... recently we started work on a response to NIST digital identity standards document... we are constructing a response as a work item, thanks to nadar from mattr for raising thing
[2020-07-28T16:10:18.694Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:10:18.738Z]	<Orie>	... they are discussing US federal and global standards...
[2020-07-28T16:10:23.059Z]	<wayne>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/94
[2020-07-28T16:10:30.295Z]	<Orie>	wayne: we are reviewing IPR process for ^
[2020-07-28T16:10:37.770Z]	<Orie>	... manu can you give an update?
[2020-07-28T16:10:58.816Z]	<Orie>	manu: this item, is about the process we will use in this group to update the VC Spec.
[2020-07-28T16:11:22.400Z]	<identitywoman>	I was just going to say that this week there is a conference on that folks might be interested in RightsCon.org
[2020-07-28T16:11:28.096Z]	<identitywoman>	q-
[2020-07-28T16:11:39.795Z]	<Orie>	... the spec, became a global standard a while ago, this group is responsible for maintence... fixing bugs, updating prose, publishing pre-standards... we can signal to the world what other things we want to do...
[2020-07-28T16:11:56.150Z]	<wayne>	identitywoman: sorry about that, i wasn't eyeing the queue as closely as i would've liked
[2020-07-28T16:12:10.138Z]	<manu>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zpmxkY0mefzZf47GXNM0qC83lBEhyaRSBmf4NJpaa6M/edit
[2020-07-28T16:12:11.026Z]	<Orie>	... dan burnett and i put together a process for this.... we have revised it.
[2020-07-28T16:12:14.413Z]	<Orie>	see link.
[2020-07-28T16:12:31.332Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:12:38.511Z]	<Orie>	... the group needs to comment on the document.... it feels complete, last call for objections
[2020-07-28T16:12:49.872Z]	<wayne>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/134
[2020-07-28T16:12:55.494Z]	<Orie>	wayne: thanks for the update, next another work item update...
[2020-07-28T16:13:38.494Z]	<Orie>	markus: did resolution one of the oldest work items, originally we were developing a seperate spec for did resolution to be paired with did core data model and syntax...
[2020-07-28T16:14:19.072Z]	<Orie>	... we wanted a spec that defined resolution... resolution and dereferencing... scope has changed a bit since the last DID WG F2F.... DID Core now covers parts of resolution.
[2020-07-28T16:14:26.357Z]	<manu>	voip: noise?
[2020-07-28T16:14:38.982Z]	<manu>	voip: noise?
[2020-07-28T16:14:46.533Z]	<Orie>	... did wg has added some parts of resolution to did core... there is a section that defines inputs and outputs....
[2020-07-28T16:15:06.859Z]	<Orie>	... we are also discussing representation of meta data... the scope has shifted a bit...
[2020-07-28T16:15:24.873Z]	<Orie>	... did resolution spec work has slowed, but we have updated to sync with developments in did wg
[2020-07-28T16:15:35.106Z]	<Orie>	... for example how metadata is represented.
[2020-07-28T16:15:52.231Z]	<Orie>	... now we distinguish between resolution meta data, and did document meta data...
[2020-07-28T16:16:09.011Z]	<Orie>	... matrix params have been removed, did params use query strings...
[2020-07-28T16:16:23.333Z]	<Orie>	... did resolution spec will still be useful, but some of it is now present in did core.
[2020-07-28T16:17:08.252Z]	<Orie>	... did resolution also covers resolver architectures, hosted service vs local.... how is fragment handled... can a resolver act a proxy for other resolvers.... how is that reflected in meta data
[2020-07-28T16:17:33.363Z]	<Orie>	... trust in the resolver, architecture questsions, how are did parameters being processed, etc.... did resolution spec will continue to address these concerns
[2020-07-28T16:17:47.392Z]	<Orie>	... did core wg only covers the abstract interface.
[2020-07-28T16:18:05.577Z]	<Orie>	... we have regular calls, switched to bi-weekly
[2020-07-28T16:18:21.666Z]	<Orie>	.... link to the meeting page will be in IRC, happy to answer questions
[2020-07-28T16:18:27.771Z]	<markus_sabadello>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qYBaXQMUoB86Alquu7WBtWOxsS8SMhp1fioYKEGCabE/
[2020-07-28T16:18:37.206Z]	<Orie>	wayne: thanks for updates, identity_woman announcements?
[2020-07-28T16:18:47.311Z]	<markus_sabadello>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-resolution/
[2020-07-28T16:19:13.132Z]	<Orie>	identity_woman: there is a conference this week, speaking about id for development, and a conversation at rights con, virtual conference... its free.
[2020-07-28T16:19:21.954Z]	<Orie>	wayne: update on ccg diversity, heather>
[2020-07-28T16:19:23.851Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:19:35.476Z]	<by_caballero>	https://rightscon.course.tc/2020/events/agenda/ for the late-joiners :D
[2020-07-28T16:19:57.093Z]	<Orie>	heather: since i ran on diversity platform, I am providing an update... looking for participation moving forward.
[2020-07-28T16:20:17.258Z]	<Orie>	... looking for successfuly characterstics, in the form or role models...
[2020-07-28T16:20:40.959Z]	<heathervescent>	https://w3c.github.io/PWETF/
[2020-07-28T16:20:42.316Z]	<Orie>	... what the landscape, how does W3C Diversity & Inclusion group relate...
[2020-07-28T16:21:02.941Z]	<Orie>	... see link in chat... this is just happening this month, getting shared with the rest of W3C.
[2020-07-28T16:21:18.499Z]	<Orie>	... another thing the group is doing, is a statement for black lives matter
[2020-07-28T16:21:35.113Z]	<mosesma>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:21:43.285Z]	<Orie>	... I am looking to connect with diversity leaders in companies, to gather info
[2020-07-28T16:22:02.267Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:22:22.853Z]	<Orie>	... looking for a co-lead, for leadership... i plan to run this project as a benevolent dictator... roles will be research, writing, design... goal is to develop a stragy for this community
[2020-07-28T16:22:29.613Z]	<Orie>	... that we can implement with out resources.
[2020-07-28T16:22:44.654Z]	<Orie>	... I am collecting stats, on presence and speaker time
[2020-07-28T16:23:05.253Z]	<Orie>	... if you are interested, contact me... i will call for volunteers again later
[2020-07-28T16:23:18.336Z]	<manu>	+1 to the work -- +1 to diversity initiative.
[2020-07-28T16:23:21.826Z]	<Orie>	wayne: awesome work, we need to be inclusive to make standards for everybody
[2020-07-28T16:23:32.691Z]	<Orie>	... next topic
[2020-07-28T16:23:37.711Z]	<manu>	Appreciate Heather taking that up
[2020-07-28T16:23:39.322Z]	<Orie>	Topic: GLEIF
[2020-07-28T16:23:47.253Z]	<wayne>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Jul/att-0100/2020-07-28_Accelerating-Digital-Identity-with-the_LEI-W3C-CCG_v1.0_draft.pdf
[2020-07-28T16:24:41.832Z]	<Orie>	wayne: speakers are carla and chistof, GLEIF standards for global legal identifier foundaton... eager to hear their use case,
[2020-07-28T16:25:26.917Z]	<Orie>	carla: thanks for the opportunity, we are relatively new. we manage the LEI, and we are looking at how this is related to VC issuance and verifiacation.
[2020-07-28T16:25:46.242Z]	<Orie>	... will be providing some background, why LEI was created, what it addresses, then cover the opportunity
[2020-07-28T16:25:57.537Z]	<Orie>	... christoff will cover the mechanics
[2020-07-28T16:26:08.565Z]	<Orie>	... then we will look at specific use cases.
[2020-07-28T16:26:15.136Z]	<Orie>	... what is an LEI?
[2020-07-28T16:26:50.038Z]	<Orie>	... originated in the last financial crisis 2008... global regulaters sought an indentifier for legal entities as we saw finance firms failing
[2020-07-28T16:27:31.345Z]	<Orie>	... the industry has some standards, but identifying who was legally responsible... everyone had different systems... made regulators job hard, for example when lehman went down...
[2020-07-28T16:27:52.959Z]	<Orie>	... also they missed the dependecy lehman had on AIG... and the gauruntees / exposure for lehman.
[2020-07-28T16:28:13.702Z]	<Orie>	... the industry was asked to engauge with regulators, and LEI was born as an ISO standards
[2020-07-28T16:28:31.885Z]	<Orie>	carla: you will see on slide 4, ISO17442
[2020-07-28T16:28:40.663Z]	<manu>	voip: noise?
[2020-07-28T16:28:56.933Z]	<Orie>	carla: the code is stood up by reference data, legal form, address... as well as relationships
[2020-07-28T16:29:06.751Z]	<manu>	voip: 117c is Carla
[2020-07-28T16:29:10.826Z]	<Orie>	... all capped in the global system, which GLEIF manages
[2020-07-28T16:29:19.301Z]	<Orie>	gleif.org
[2020-07-28T16:29:28.431Z]	<Orie>	... free access for all users
[2020-07-28T16:29:49.627Z]	<Orie>	carla: an LEI is assigned once, it stays with it for life
[2020-07-28T16:30:00.779Z]	<Orie>	... historical data persists... historical data is retained.
[2020-07-28T16:30:17.252Z]	<manu>	voip: 117c is Karla
[2020-07-28T16:30:33.045Z]	<Orie>	... uniquely tied to financial services... but its also used to identify firms, trusts, foundations, or individuals activing in a business capacity
[2020-07-28T16:30:35.604Z]	<burn>	present+
[2020-07-28T16:30:55.000Z]	<Orie>	... we looked at how LEI can be useful in a digital world for proving identity and digital transactions
[2020-07-28T16:31:14.423Z]	<Orie>	... we looked at embeding the LEI to identify a person at an org in a role, in standard X509
[2020-07-28T16:31:37.462Z]	<Orie>	... intially sovrin, evernym helped look at how LEI could be leveraged in VCs
[2020-07-28T16:31:49.876Z]	<Orie>	... we took the same use case, for regulatory filing with a legal entity
[2020-07-28T16:32:05.839Z]	<Orie>	... like a financial report... tested with PoCs on ethereum and hyperledger indy
[2020-07-28T16:32:55.295Z]	<Orie>	... people act on behalf of an organization... although these credentials are designed with schemas... we designed these for public discoversability of employee credentials
[2020-07-28T16:33:06.111Z]	<Orie>	... for example, who is the CEO of org...
[2020-07-28T16:33:19.422Z]	<Orie>	... we are doing more standards work with ISO to cover langauges and roles ...
[2020-07-28T16:33:39.416Z]	<Orie>	... GLEF stephan wolf, CEO of GLEIF, for example
[2020-07-28T16:33:50.091Z]	<Orie>	... we put this credential in a wallet, and anchor it to a blockchain
[2020-07-28T16:34:13.055Z]	<Orie>	... we have the credentials in organization wallets, person can engage in regulatory filings.
[2020-07-28T16:34:31.132Z]	<Orie>	... we could expand these assignments for VCs in day to day business as well.
[2020-07-28T16:35:13.032Z]	<Orie>	... slide 11, digitial identity chain of trust... we take an identifer from a trusted network like sovrin, we take that number, evaluate an certify LEIs, and VCs containing LEIs
[2020-07-28T16:35:19.798Z]	<Orie>	... also interested in extending to 3rd parties
[2020-07-28T16:35:37.014Z]	<Orie>	... the digitial LEI will then issue another ... (sorry)
[2020-07-28T16:35:57.897Z]	<Orie>	... the org, person, the role... is the focus of the credential
[2020-07-28T16:36:18.754Z]	<Orie>	... we have an issuance chain, but also a verification chain of trust all the way back to GLEIF
[2020-07-28T16:36:27.474Z]	<Orie>	christoff: can everyon here me?
[2020-07-28T16:36:48.874Z]	<Orie>	... staring on slide 12... lets look at person representing entity can benefit form VCs
[2020-07-28T16:37:27.837Z]	<Orie>	... GLEF manages root of chain of trust, the LEI issuers... next to that Digital LEI issuer, which fills out the issuance to legal entities
[2020-07-28T16:37:38.434Z]	<Orie>	... there are 2 roles, but they can be held by the same organization
[2020-07-28T16:38:01.397Z]	<Orie>	... 2 roles can be combined but don't have to
[2020-07-28T16:38:24.239Z]	<Orie>	... LEI user consumes LEIs and VC content
[2020-07-28T16:38:27.971Z]	<Orie>	... moving to slide 14
[2020-07-28T16:39:03.277Z]	<Orie>	... our PoC on sovrin... gleif receives s vc which enables issuance, a digital lei issurer credential.
[2020-07-28T16:39:16.553Z]	<Orie>	... gives them certifiaction that they are part of the system...
[2020-07-28T16:39:39.881Z]	<Orie>	... the LEI issuer to an entity... paving the way for a VC...
[2020-07-28T16:39:55.273Z]	<Orie>	... legal entity that has an LEI, cna request from the digital lei issue a VC
[2020-07-28T16:40:12.135Z]	<mosesma>	Carla and Christof, this is great work, do you have contact information you can share? I'd like to ask a few specific questions offline?
[2020-07-28T16:40:19.439Z]	<Orie>	... slide 18.... part fo this request is the digital lei issuer requesting information for GLEIF system
[2020-07-28T16:40:36.658Z]	<Orie>	... verification and validation, 3rd party checks, all important
[2020-07-28T16:41:07.124Z]	<Orie>	... moving on slide 19... Digital LEI issuer, can issue to the legal entity... equiped with this, the legal entity can now issue credentials to employees
[2020-07-28T16:41:11.975Z]	<Orie>	... for internal or external use
[2020-07-28T16:41:22.212Z]	<Orie>	... what are the benefits?
[2020-07-28T16:41:43.596Z]	<Orie>	... if a person acting in a role of an entity, as a credential which is linked to the entity, lots of powerful stuff can be simplified.
[2020-07-28T16:42:03.381Z]	<Orie>	... purchasing related to businesses can be supported by these VCs, onboarding, KYC....
[2020-07-28T16:42:16.472Z]	<Orie>	... when you do business, you need to know and trust your counter party
[2020-07-28T16:42:37.503Z]	<Orie>	... slie 21... specific public roles, like director or officer of legal entity
[2020-07-28T16:42:50.123Z]	<Orie>	... usually these persons are already publically discoveralbe
[2020-07-28T16:43:06.580Z]	<Orie>	.... a legal entity can report back the public discoverable roles
[2020-07-28T16:43:24.472Z]	<Orie>	... digital lei issuer, can put this into global public central registries
[2020-07-28T16:43:46.732Z]	<Orie>	... public information does not contain PII, or company...
[2020-07-28T16:44:00.732Z]	<Orie>	... you would see there is a CEO, not the name
[2020-07-28T16:44:11.320Z]	<Orie>	... data subjects must agree to disclosure
[2020-07-28T16:44:28.525Z]	<Orie>	... slide 24, global register
[2020-07-28T16:44:47.646Z]	<Orie>	... slide 25 covers use cases, business transactions and regulatory reporting.
[2020-07-28T16:45:03.895Z]	<Orie>	... in our PoC we covered real companies and regulators
[2020-07-28T16:45:33.638Z]	<Orie>	... slide 26: on the GLEIF website, the complete LEI data pool, we can add reported publically discoverable roles
[2020-07-28T16:45:43.995Z]	<Orie>	... for example, CEO and financial analyst
[2020-07-28T16:46:08.599Z]	<Orie>	... allows a user to request more into, which allows for additional discolsure... whihc leads back to the chain of trust.
[2020-07-28T16:46:21.172Z]	<Orie>	... we can heck the user, entity, issuer chain is verified
[2020-07-28T16:46:54.991Z]	<Orie>	... slide 27 covers technical architecture, it was easy... we created fully functional PoC.
[2020-07-28T16:47:41.172Z]	<Orie>	... see issuance, request for verification, leveraged exisitng building blocks, sovrin, hyperledger indy, we leveraged VON network and BC GOV hyperledger indy based system for state certificated
[2020-07-28T16:47:57.554Z]	<Orie>	... we had help from everynm to put the bits together
[2020-07-28T16:48:09.278Z]	<Orie>	... small integration layer, and application layer.
[2020-07-28T16:48:19.972Z]	<manu>	q+ to ask about steps for pilot or production? What are next steps? Challenges for moving this stuff forward?
[2020-07-28T16:48:30.451Z]	<Orie>	... we don't focus much on mobile apps, we focused on desktop applications for the corportate use case.
[2020-07-28T16:48:40.741Z]	<Orie>	carla: thanks christoff.... so for use cases..
[2020-07-28T16:48:53.637Z]	<Orie>	... we summarized the ones we are seeingg, and future PoCs
[2020-07-28T16:49:26.602Z]	<Orie>	... 1. focused on filers / reporter to regulators... feedback from regulators was the use case could be expanded to 3rd party filers
[2020-07-28T16:49:37.671Z]	<Orie>	... and auditors.. the flow would be extended.
[2020-07-28T16:49:51.093Z]	<Orie>	... we see big potential into client onboarding and kyc
[2020-07-28T16:50:10.035Z]	<Orie>	... trusted proof of who can sign / commit an organization, as a client for onboarding...
[2020-07-28T16:50:22.103Z]	<Orie>	... further on, bring additional trust to KYC
[2020-07-28T16:50:38.586Z]	<Orie>	... we also see huge applications for import / export customs process for supply chain
[2020-07-28T16:50:57.202Z]	<Orie>	... both international and domestic supply chain transactions with embedded LEIs
[2020-07-28T16:51:25.911Z]	<Orie>	... especially useful for working with VCs, connected to the financial services... very helpfulf or supply chain related payments.
[2020-07-28T16:51:49.232Z]	<Orie>	... also appliation for trusted supplier /provider and member networks.
[2020-07-28T16:52:11.327Z]	<Orie>	... also payment providers where regulators are part of the ecosystem...
[2020-07-28T16:52:32.811Z]	<heathervescent>	q+ on trusted suppliers and on the ground auditing
[2020-07-28T16:52:44.135Z]	<Orie>	... sanction screening, anti-laundering and counter-terrorism managment... all possible places where LEI might help
[2020-07-28T16:53:01.311Z]	<Orie>	... business licenses... linking with international identifiers..
[2020-07-28T16:53:20.716Z]	<Orie>	... in order to share info and protect data... especially in relation to things like GDPR
[2020-07-28T16:53:31.003Z]	<Orie>	... share relevant facts, support ZKPs...
[2020-07-28T16:53:40.541Z]	<Orie>	... at the discresssion of the holder.
[2020-07-28T16:53:56.814Z]	<Orie>	... last oint...credential with LEI can be very powerful.
[2020-07-28T16:54:12.025Z]	<Orie>	... they can survive even changes to the reference data that supports the LEI
[2020-07-28T16:54:21.831Z]	<Orie>	...  very helpful for organization identity
[2020-07-28T16:54:43.538Z]	<Orie>	... credential does not need to be revoked, because of changes to reference data.
[2020-07-28T16:54:47.558Z]	<Orie>	carla: questions?
[2020-07-28T16:54:51.257Z]	<wayne>	q?
[2020-07-28T16:54:52.973Z]	<Orie>	wayne: lets go the q
[2020-07-28T16:54:57.338Z]	<wayne>	ack manu
[2020-07-28T16:54:57.755Z]	<mosesma>	q+
[2020-07-28T16:55:16.498Z]	<Orie>	manu: hey carla an christoff... great background... curious about timeline.
[2020-07-28T16:55:42.511Z]	<Orie>	... seems like VCs are valuable to LEI... any indiation of number of PoC / Pilots / Production systems?
[2020-07-28T16:56:01.492Z]	<Orie>	... if its still years out, we would love to know whats holding it up, challenges / features...
[2020-07-28T16:56:20.035Z]	<Orie>	carla: we are in the middle of evaluating next steps for GLEIF...
[2020-07-28T16:56:32.379Z]	<Orie>	... what role we should play moving forward...
[2020-07-28T16:56:54.213Z]	<Orie>	... closest to production is.... use case number 5, payment remittance system.
[2020-07-28T16:57:15.813Z]	<Orie>	... its an existing ecosystem thats out there... our PoC just adding an LEI to an existing production system
[2020-07-28T16:57:31.197Z]	<Orie>	... of course we are waiting for confirmation from operators.
[2020-07-28T16:57:47.357Z]	<Orie>	... can't give you estimates... we keep finding more interest.
[2020-07-28T16:58:15.212Z]	<Orie>	... we joined Trust over IP as a contributor member... evaluating the LEI as an ecosystem governance framework
[2020-07-28T16:58:36.818Z]	<Orie>	... LEI as a solution to organizational identity in digital transactions.
[2020-07-28T16:59:02.452Z]	<Orie>	christoff: tech is not the gating factor, its interoperability, many options in practice...
[2020-07-28T16:59:25.556Z]	<Orie>	...  we don't want to make choices, we don't want to exclude... so we go with several, or go with one and making it a leading one
[2020-07-28T16:59:28.236Z]	<wayne>	ack heathervescent
[2020-07-28T16:59:36.932Z]	<Orie>	... this is why governance is important.
[2020-07-28T17:00:15.772Z]	<Orie>	heather: fascinatting space... can you talk about trusted supplier use case, curious about supply chain, auditing... re patagonia, certified fair trade... vs pharma supply chain
[2020-07-28T17:00:43.760Z]	<Orie>	carla: we think it applies to both...
[2020-07-28T17:01:01.962Z]	<Orie>	... it applies to procurement processes generally
[2020-07-28T17:01:20.371Z]	<Orie>	... also useful in supplychain.
[2020-07-28T17:01:22.914Z]	<by_caballero>	https://medium.com/spherity/third-party-risk-management-a87a6dcdaf67
[2020-07-28T17:01:25.600Z]	<Orie>	... we see both
[2020-07-28T17:02:05.478Z]	<manu>	voip: connections?
[2020-07-28T17:02:10.110Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 118d
