Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-07-24-vc-education/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-07-24-vc-education/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC for Education Task Force Transcript for 2023-07-24

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2023Jul/0006.html
Topics:
  1. IP Note
  2. Introductions and Reintroductions
  3. Announcements and Reminders
  4. Plugfest 3 Technical Question
  5. Plugfest #3 Technical Questions
Organizer:
  Kerri Lemoie, Simone Ravaioli, Dmitri Zagidulin
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Manu Sporny, Phil L (P1), Christiana Garcia, 
  Viktor, Sharon Leu, Hiroyuki Sano, Japan, Niels Klomp - Sphereon, 
  Chris Webber, TimG, Dmitri Zagidulin, Guillermo Villasana 
  Territorium, Andy Griebel, Danny Done, Nader Helmy, T. Mustachi, 
  Keith Hackett, Nikos Voutsinas, Eric Shepherd, James Chartrand, 
  Philip, Aditya - Infisign, Tabraiz (Workbay), Srujan Kotikela, 
  Susan Stroud, Ariel Gentile, Brandi Delancey, Phil Long, Kerri 
  Lemoie, John Kuo, Kayode Ezike, Deb Everhart, Fabrice Rochette, 
  Stuart Freeman, Sanuja (Diwala), Mohammed Z | Diwala, David 
  Chadwick, Mohammed Zaghloul, Francis Quek, Brian Richter, TallTed 
  // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Ioram, Azeem, Jeff O 
  - HumanOS, Mohammed Zaghloul | Diwala

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.

Topic: IP Note

Dmitri Zagidulin:  What if you want to make substantive 
  contribution to this or any other CG work item you must be 
  members of w3c's credentials community group with the IP our 
  agreement signed if you'd like to contribute and haven't signed 
  the agreement yet ping one of the chairs or just reach out to 
  anyone will help you get started.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Call is recorded the minutes on the recording 
  will be archived over at the ccg meetings repository on GitHub we 
  use jitsi chat or IRC to queue up the speakers and to add 
  yourself to the queue type the character q and plus to add 
  yourself to the queue.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So if you raise your hand and jitsi that also 
  adds you to the queue very convenience.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I'll next up let's move to introductions and 
  range reductions is anyone new to the call the ones to introduce 
  themselves.

Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions

Dmitri Zagidulin:  And also does make me want to do the 
  reintroduction you haven't reintroduced in a long time and we've 
  got a lot of new people coming in for the plugfest.
<sharon_leu> @Manu, it is bloodfest though
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Ain't nothing anyone let's go to announcements 
  and reminders does anybody have any Community announcements.

Topic: Announcements and Reminders

Manu Sporny:  Yeah just a quick update on what's going on in the 
  verifiable credential working group just on last Friday there was 
  sorry I'm trying to get a link to it quick CLG I just last Friday 
  there was an announcement about demonstration of support for the.
<manu_sporny> Data Integrity Selective Disclosure: 
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-wg/2023Jul/0015.html
Manu Sporny:  Like to disclosure schemes so putting that in chat 
  now data and Peg would be selective disclosure disclosure schemes 
  there we had a number of organizations including Global standards 
  organization so like one edtech from the education Community 
  connects us from the retailer community in gs1 from the supply 
  chain community.
Manu Sporny:  Coming out in support of selective disclosure for 
  ecdsa as well as a number of implementers MIT DC Randa identify 
  VCI Flash and so on and so forth Arkansas Bordello from Dan UTech 
  so there are pull requests that have been opened on the select on 
  the ecdsa repository in the verifiable credential working group.
Manu Sporny:   Whoop and we're looking for Community feedback on 
  those.
Manu Sporny:  And that's it for that item the other item that's a 
  heads up is that in this is I guess pertinent to the discussion 
  today a new version of the chappie playground has been rolled out 
  into the live site it supports we believe the feature set 
  necessary for plugfest 3 so it can do.
Sharon Leu: https://playground.chapi.io/
Manu Sporny:  Issuance multiple verification you can present 
  multiple credentials at the same time right now it supports 
  everything that plugfest one and plugfest to supported as well as 
  some new features that plugfest three needs it supports still 
  multiple issuer backends and multiple verifier back ends that 
  might have some.
Manu Sporny:   Sniff occurrence on the.
Manu Sporny:  The question that my Pro Rock had on the mailing 
  list about how do you get headless wallets and issuers and 
  verifiers working with plugs Miss three and we are adding support 
  for oid for VCI and the new feature the other new features that 
  it supports as support for Native wallets as well as web-based 
  wallets using.
Manu Sporny:   Bible presentation request.
Manu Sporny:  I know that was a whole stream of like new features 
  that it has we will summarize those and send them to the mailing 
  list sometime this week that's it.
<kerri_lemoie> Thanks, Manu!
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Wonderful thank you so much Manu it's anybody 
  else want to make an announcement.
Manu Sporny: https://playground.chapi.io/
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right I guess I'll do some quick reminders 
  we've got some good Community conferences relevant to this crowd 
  coming up in September we have rebooting web of trust in Cologne 
  Germany on September 19 through 20 seconds the week before that 
  is w3c tpack which is the technical technical planning 
  architecture committee.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   In Seville Spain.
Dmitri Zagidulin: https://dwebcamp.coolab.org/
<phil_t3> ASU signed the SD data integrity support doc, as well 
  ;-)
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Before that actually is a very first instance 
  of a new conference this is distributed Web Camp spreading into 
  Brazil so this is the first time do webcam Brazil is happening so 
  if you're in the area you should definitely come by and then of 
  course in October 10 through 12 we have our W and V plugfest 3 is 
  going to be held there the day before so I looked over.
<manu_sporny> Thank you to ASU for their support! :)
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So let's move on to our name topic which is.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Technical questions for plugfest 3.

Topic: Plugfest 3 Technical Question

Topic: Plugfest #3 Technical Questions

Dmitri Zagidulin:  We have a couple of questions brought up on 
  the mailing list thread in preparation.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  For for the skull one from Mike Pro Rock Mike 
  are you on the call.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Possibly not and then we had another set of 
  questions from Neal's and some did Cam related questions from 
  Mario so if you have I seen eels on here and I see re also go 
  please let yourselves to the Q&A.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Go ahead.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Nilsa all excellent questions firstly 
  let's remind everyone that for aside from Big questions like this 
  that we can talk about in the mailing list during calls like this 
  day-to-day coordination between the various testing communities 
  the VCI the open ID Connect Four.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Issuance and.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Their final presentations All Those Questions 
  great place to ask them is the is the plugfest three slack 
  channel so if you do use slack please reach out to to Sharon and 
  we'll get you set up and added to those slack generals so 
  maleness plaque channel two main questions to ask exactly these 
  kind of questions as they come up after today's call.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   All so.
<sharon_leu> Send me a message if you need to be added to 
  Plugfest3 slack!
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The purpose of the plugfest and Sharon please 
  feel free to jump in here and elaborate is to demonstrate 
  interoperability not to a particular spec but within a community 
  right so for example for plugfest one and to be open as you 
  connect participants we're using I believe the ngi Atlantic 
  interoperability profile and since then the in our profile.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Work has.
<kerri_lemoie> Can also use the vc-edu listserv. Archives and 
  subscribe mailto link here: 
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Continued we have some new profiles so my 
  recommendation would be and again Sharon please please feel free 
  to jump in that we we asked the the current set of interrupt 
  profile since that's going to be the largest presumably the 
  largest community of interoperable software.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I carry a Sharon do you wanna go ahead mom.
Manu Sporny:  I'd like to hear from Carrie and Sharon first 
  before I go sorry.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Okay great yep not a problem not a problem.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  No that's okay.
Sharon Leu:  Sorry unmute problems that yes Dimitri I think I 
  think that's right this is a community interrupt demonstration we 
  want people to principally work together I think we are agnostic 
  about which particular version or set but we want this to be the 
  set that are most commonly used by the participants of the best 
  three that like even if it's not the most current or if it is or 
  if it is.
Sharon Leu:   I like the.
Sharon Leu:  That the agreement that people have chosen it 
  because they think that it's the best thing for the community and 
  also I think part of this is to be a little bit experimental so 
  that we can have an opportunity to test out like what works and 
  what doesn't work and recorded so that the people who including 
  people in plugfest and on this call who are working on the 
  various specs can take that data and make improvements that 
  ultimately.
Sharon Leu:   We will make it more robust.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So I see Ariella Hugh before before we get to 
  you I want to make sure that we answer Nils is other questions on 
  the mailing list which is probably no that's that's not.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah yeah so which is how do you prove the 
  requirements of plugfest one because in order to participate in 
  three you have to have sort of demonstrated that you went through 
  stages one and two and because plugs last one was about 
  displaying a credential in the wallet question naturally arises 
  that if you have a API side or system side wallet how do you 
  display a credential especially the image part.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Ice if there is no.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And that's a that's a great question I'd love 
  to hear from the community both wallet implementers and of course 
  Sharon and the other organizers all right so let's easiest way to 
  do this is let's go to the queue so Ariel go ahead you're up 
  next.
Ariel_Gentile: Yeah hi everyone yeah I think that my question is 
  already answered by you by but yeah because men mostly what I 
  wanted to know is about what we are implementers of did calm so 
  we wanted to know if we needed to support the vidcom V1 which is 
  the one that came from from Ares Community or the V2 which is the 
  one that has been.
Ariel_Gentile:  transferred on unpublished.
Ariel_Gentile: A suspect in the diff so may I think from from 
  what you answered before is that we should ask on the slack 
  channel right to see what I mean to to coordinate with with the 
  community to see which which versions We we are going to use in 
  the plugfest.
Ariel_Gentile:  I'm correct.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah that that's exactly it yeah I think 
  everybody understands that in any of these protocols supporting 
  all of the versions especially going backwards in time is not 
  feasible so yeah we definitely expect the community to pick a 
  subset that they're comfortable supporting.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you Monty go ahead.
<sharon_leu> @ariel It might be helpful to see what people used 
  for plugfest2: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/plugfest-2-2022/
Manu Sporny:  Yeah it's coming has to do with the kind of 
  headless API driven verifiable credential you know ecosystem 
  participants in plugfest to we added support in the chappie 
  playground which is which is getting renamed to the verifiable 
  credentials playground because we're going to support oid for and 
  chappy and VC API.
Manu Sporny:   I am.
Manu Sporny:  Well for us to also support did calm but we need 
  you know people to work with and in order to do that one of the 
  things we did in the in on Wiz we enabled people to provide 
  issuer back-end systems like issuing systems Engine Systems so if 
  people remember from plugfest to we had like 17 plus issuers that 
  provided back in infrastructure you could select from a list so 
  you could pick like the jmf plugfest.
Manu Sporny:   Seneschal and then you could pick one of many 
  issuing back.
Manu Sporny:  To issue that.
Manu Sporny:  Into a digital wallet in at least that's how some 
  people you know provided or demonstrated support for subset of 
  the ecosystem like the back end providers were able to plug in as 
  issuers the chappie you know playground we see playground has 
  been updated so that people can plug in back and verify our 
  systems and that would support what mic Pro Rock I think is is 
  asking for the only.
Manu Sporny:   Problem there is the.
Manu Sporny:  To be able to display a verifiable credential so 
  it's kind of like is that a requirement that I think the question 
  is is that a requirement for back and service providers to 
  participate in the plugfest because that's typically only done in 
  wallets it's not done in the you know the parts of the ecosystem 
  that they're providing access to it so what I'm trying to say is 
  it is totally possible to provide you know back end.
Manu Sporny:   From a technical perspective it is totally.
Manu Sporny:  To provide back and issuing platforms and back and 
  verification platforms but it's not clear if people can 
  participate in the plugfest in that capacity that's.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  A great question and it sounds like carry on 
  the Queue is getting into answer that Manu as a.
Manu Sporny:  Yes yep yeah let me let me get that set up.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  If it's at all possible would it be about 
  would you be able to demo the current state of verifiably prevent 
  credentials playground in case some of the implementers are 
  haven't picked a method yet excellent alright so we'll give you a 
  minute to prepare here you're up next.
Kerri Lemoie:  Thanks soup I'm going to give me is he probably 
  won't laugh and that's that this series of protests really has to 
  do with clothes all right this is the these three public restroom 
  really very specifically have to do with interactions with 
  wallets and this is just because of what jmf is working towards 
  so that is our Focus for these slugfests it doesn't mean that 
  system to system transactions can happen we'd love to see it but 
  as far as like.
Kerri Lemoie:   The official participation in the podcast it 
  should follow.
Kerri Lemoie:  B and used wallets and way that Sharon's describe 
  the requirements.
Kerri Lemoie:   Does that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  To to add to that I am really curious to ask 
  the system wallet agent like implementers.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So that does do those wallets really have no 
  user interface in which case how do users interact with them and 
  and what are the use cases that these walls are targeting.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  At Neil's go ahead.
<manu_sporny> Supply Chain VCs don't use Wallets for much of 
  their work, just FYI... fully automated flows.
<manu_sporny> They do use UIs for management... Supply Chain is 
  largely machine-to-machine.
<manu_sporny> So, maybe instead of saying "Wallet" you can say 
  "UI"
<manu_sporny> (that is, the supply chain VCs /are/ rendered at 
  some point on a management UI)
<phil_t3> Sounds like this might suggest a further elaboration of 
  the plugfest framework for services provided to wallets, that is, 
  assuming that more wallets develop service APIs for plugging in 
  service features.
<sharon_leu> That's right. I guess we should have actually asked 
  - in the vc-edu use cases, would this be necessary.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks hon unfortunately I don't think my Croc 
  is on the call but will pursue the conversation on the mailing 
  list so Manu in in the GT chat is pointing out that the supply 
  chain ecosystem for if I were Naturals does not use a.
<manu_sporny> Just an idea... not married to it... just trying to 
  help :)
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Does not have like a graphical user interface 
  a lot of the workflows are done in batches are machine to machine 
  and so Manu is proposing that we use the term instead of saying 
  wallets you can say you I I'm not sure I agree with that because 
  we are talking about wallets as a repository of right again this 
  sort of goes in to verify the credentials data model philosophy 
  and discussion of okay.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   So what's what is actually wallet how do we 
  Define it.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I think for this type of blood tests it makes 
  sense to Define wallets as repositories of learner work or 
  credentials.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That's Lord them on behalf of natural persons 
  and where issuers can add credentials into them and then on the 
  other end which is what plugs S3 is about verifiers can ask for 
  credentials from from those repositories.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Let's see who's who's on the queue as I see 
  Carrie I think I think that's up from previous lessons you have 
  another comment and Mano.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right I got mine.
<sharon_leu> That's right. This work is funded to support the 
  VC-EDU use cases, that is learner and workers. We describe it 
  more fully: jff.org/digitalwallets
<niels_klomp_-_sphereon> I think the idea behind JFF Plugfests is 
  to enable people, so that is not really M2M
Manu Sporny:  All right um I think you had asked for kind of a 
  showing where the current infrastructure is for chappie 
  playground soon to be renamed the BT playground let me see if I 
  can share my screen can folks see this.
Kerri Lemoie: +1 Niels
Manu Sporny:  Okay so for those of you that are new to the 
  plugfest is one of the kind of infrastructure systems we use to 
  demonstrate interop both in Phase 1 and Phase 2 chappie stands 
  for the credential Handler API which is a very confusing name 
  because it's supposed to support or he does support all of the 
  protocols meaning.
Manu Sporny:   You can h.
Manu Sporny:  Previously you could only use VC API in verifiable 
  presentation request to initiate exchanges with chappie chappies 
  been upgraded this thing has been upgraded now to support open ID 
  flows and we're starting to work with folks to work on did Cam 
  flows as well so chappies agnostic to the type of protocol in the 
  type of messages that that move over to it that move over it.
Manu Sporny: https://chapi.io/
Manu Sporny:  There's a bunch of documentation here so if you go 
  to chappy dot IO there's a bunch of documentation here on how you 
  can integrate with it to do open Wallet selection there's 
  write-ups for if you're a verifiable credential issuer or if 
  you're a digital wallet which is probably pertinent to this 
  current iteration of Fest and if your verifier there's also a 
  fact that we ended up having to write during the last plugfest to 
  try and support as many and implementers as.
Manu Sporny:   Also just go to chappie die oh that's how you get 
  to this site that I'm demonstrating.
Manu Sporny:  Able to run through this exact demo there when you 
  click on try the chappy playground this is the new update that 
  we've added to support plugfest three so before all you could do 
  was like issue credentials using multiple ensure back ends now 
  the thing that's new today is this verifier demo so the ability 
  to do multi-shot verification so if you are a.
Manu Sporny:   Digital wallet provider you can.
Manu Sporny:  Select multiple you know credentials to request 
  from the wallet and then that is delivered in one shot to the 
  verifier the verifier looks at the verifiable presentation and 
  looks at the BCS and verifies all of that so I think and please 
  correct me if I'm wrong that you know this is what is required 
  this is at least one infrastructure that's required to 
  demonstrate success in plugfest 3.
Manu Sporny:   So there's this site this is the.
Manu Sporny:  For structure site.
Manu Sporny:  And then I'm just going to use various wallet to do 
  the demo a day we have run this demo using other wallets that 
  pass plugfest through to in a subset of them do also pass 
  plugfest 3 now but they have some kind of small UI glitches so 
  that we didn't want to put people on the spot you know if we were 
  going to demo this so okay so let me launch into the demo here 
  I'm going to issue.
Manu Sporny:   Shoo I guess plugfest 3 requires.
Manu Sporny:  It's really sees all su3 VCS and then request those 
  three VCS from the wallet so the first step here is you go to the 
  issuer demo in you select the VC that you want to issue one of 
  the VCS I think is the is the permanent resident card VC this 
  environment lets you do did author or not so.
Manu Sporny:   Some wall.
Manu Sporny:  Got some don't but I'm going to go ahead and demo 
  with did auth sign in with your did sorry this is the wallet 
  selection screen that chappy provides it supports both native 
  wallets and web-based wallets it is protocol agnostic so if your 
  wallet supports oid for VCI it can show up here if you have a 
  native wallet it can show up here if you have web-based wallet it 
  shows up here so this is this will show any wallet.
Manu Sporny:   Supporting any protocol.
Manu Sporny:  Click on remember my choice for this site so we 
  don't see the wallet selectors throughout the rest of the demo 
  but I'll go ahead and click the wallet that I want to do the demo 
  with this is basically asking me if I want to authenticate so 
  it's the website this is the wallet interface popping up and 
  saying hey this website chappie playground issuer would like you 
  to authenticate I click authenticate and then imma authenticated 
  in the chappie playground using data with it generates an issues.
Manu Sporny:   Use the credential the permanent resident card 
  that I asked for.
Manu Sporny:  You can kind of look.
Manu Sporny:  At you know what credential was issued here and 
  then when I click store in wallet again chap you pops up my 
  wallet pops up and asked me to store this credential in my wallet 
  so I go ahead and click store in wallet and that's the issuance 
  process so if I go over to my wallet which was empty before and I 
  refresh it the permanent resident card shows up in the wallet 
  there.
Manu Sporny:   So I'm going to go through that two more times.
Manu Sporny:  Plug fits three I guess requires two more 
  credentials I'll do jmf plugfest to badge and then dude it off 
  again this is annoying and repetitive I think we're going to try 
  and integrate it into the site itself so you only have to do it 
  all at once so I'm going to store the Joe plugfest to badge and 
  so if I refresh here.
Manu Sporny:   I see.
Manu Sporny:  Plugfest to badge in the the government of Utopia 
  credential so here's the plugfest to badge and then let's do a 
  Workforce skills credential it's safe Chef certified this is a 
  food safety credential so I'll issue that into the wallet do a 
  did othe stored in the wallet.
Manu Sporny:   And then say yes.
Manu Sporny:  So I want to store it in the wallet okay so that 
  was basically what we did in plugfest to in plugfest 3 is where 
  we use this new interface the verifier demo.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Can Mom can you pass that adjust I just want 
  to highlight so how what Mana demonstrated there are sort of the 
  prerequisites that we expect participants for plug this 32 also 
  be able to fulfill to pass the plugs as to which means get a 
  credential into your wallet using one of the recognized Community 
  Open Standards which is V Capi open I do.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   For VC issuance and.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I did come to so that that bit the part where 
  mono just use it to provision potentials into the wallet those 
  are steps you want to pass yourselves as well go ahead and 10.
Manu Sporny:  Gamers on the Queue I don't know if we want to take 
  question.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah go ahead Bama.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I think you might be muted though.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right Guillermo feel free to unmute at any 
  point in time and ask you a question so go ahead go ahead 
  Mountain.
Manu Sporny:  Okay I guess the other thing we'll do is a verifier 
  demo the one thing to point out about the issue or demo is while 
  I demonstrated web-based wallet it works for Native wallets as 
  well the Integrations uses the URL Handler to do that so we're 
  typing up the instructions on how to do that now but chappie 
  supports both web and Native and is protocol.
Manu Sporny:   Stick in query language.
Manu Sporny:  I'll stick the next thing is the verifier demo so 
  this is new for plugfest 3 in what the verifier UI looks like 
  here is it allows you to multi-select credential so it says you 
  can usually just do you know like one at a time but the verifier 
  demo allows you to multi-select to say I want a permanent 
  resident card and I want to plugfest to credential and I want a 
  safe Chef certification so in a single shot you can.
Manu Sporny:   Do a request for three types of credentials and 
  then the.
Manu Sporny:  Theory pops up with a UI that allows you to say 
  which one of those credentials to send over if not all of them 
  and then it's sent over so this happens pretty quickly but what 
  I'm doing here is I'm selecting three credentials on the chappie 
  playground saying that I want to receive those from a wallet I 
  click the button the wallet pops up it receives the request in 
  provides an interface that allows me to multi-select the.
Manu Sporny:   Essentials and in this case the wallet implements 
  like.
<heather_carle_(territorium)> So the requirement for PF is to 
  support 3 wallet import requests at one time? Not do them 
  individually?
Manu Sporny:  Already makes the selection for the individual and 
  then they can choose to actually send them over or not so when I 
  click share that set of credentials will be sent back to the 
  verifier playground and as you can see here there are three 
  verifiable credentials one two three and if I open them up there 
  the credentials that I asked for so the permanent resident card 
  the jmf plugfest to badge in the.
Manu Sporny:   The this is what is it.
Manu Sporny:  Safety certification sorry right there food safety 
  certification credential so the infrastructure here receives all 
  the VCS receives the verifiable present presentation and then 
  checks the proof on the presentation and checks the proof on all 
  the verifiable credentials to make sure that it's all it's all 
  right and then it'll give a rat you know a presentation verified 
  thing down here at the bottom.
<kayode_ezike> @Manu, was that request delivered to the wallet as 
  a Verifiable Presentation Request? What does that request look 
  like?
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Wait one sec what's the while we're roller at 
  the screen and looking at the presentation I want to highlight 
  the fact that we are asking for did authentication for the wallet 
  to perform data authentication when handing over the credentials 
  which just means we want.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The wallet to sign.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Bundle of credentials that it hands over to 
  the relying party with a proof purpose authentication exactly 
  like it using whatever key sweet you using and whichever 
  different credential proof serialization method you're using but 
  we do we do expect the presentation to be signed by go ahead 
  Manos.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  But I'll accept you talking we lost audio.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Cause you're muted yep noise.
<sharon_leu> @Heather, are you referring to issue or verify?
Manu Sporny:  Sorry I figured on me apologies so in the plugfest 
  one and two we used did key so we support did key today we also 
  support various one but I don't think anyone's going to you know 
  I think everyone's using dead key to kind of demonstrate interop 
  at this point we can put in support for other did methods but you 
  know there needs to be a community of people that are like we 
  really want to use X or Y the.
Manu Sporny:   I don't know you know because.
<niels_klomp_-_sphereon> For PF2 and OID4VCI did:jwk was used
Manu Sporny:  Well I'll just stop there are putting in other did 
  methods will require more work its work we're willing to do as 
  long as enough you know implementers want to want to do that or 
  there is there any guidance on like.
Manu Sporny:  Did methods You're Expecting when they thought is 
  being done.
<heather_carle_(territorium)> Both. I'm trying to be clear, we 
  need import 3 to our wallet (at the same time) and then also 
  issue 3 to be verified? Just trying to be clear.
<sharon_leu> Response to technical approaches here: 
  https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1mxu_Ts1a2tQX_4XIDxHyppqIitopsn7v2T0RI8RByAI/edit
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Great question so we we pulled the 
  participants for which did method they're planning to support and 
  so we have we have the usual distribution the most common ones I 
  believe are being did key did jwk as Neo points out a lot of the 
  open ID connect for VCI folks we're using digital BK 4 plus 2 and 
  then of course did web is the third major popular one.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   And Sharon just.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Posted the link to the spreadsheet of the 
  participant responders in chats so go ahead and take a look you 
  should be able to gauge on which ones.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Our popular Heather in chat is asking this is 
  a great question because it's come up in other venues as well 
  does the wallet need to handle the request for multiple 
  credentials in one go.
<azeem> How is the participation of VC verifier ?
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Or is it okay for the verifier for the relying 
  party to ask three different times for a single credential and 
  part of the reason that's relevant is some of the discussion in 
  the open ID Community where a number of the participants were 
  wondering can we get away with just with constraining the 
  verified presentation spec or just the way to see for VP.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   It's back to 0.
<azeem> is it possible to participate without a holder wallet .
Dmitri Zagidulin:  One credential at a time so is it is it is 
  sort of in the in the letter or the spirit of the plugfest to 
  either ask for two or three at a time or have the request to be 
  sequential and and I'll let Sharon and mono and carry speak to 
  that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Then yeah k.o.d. by the queue as well so who 
  wants to wants to handle this one.
Manu Sporny:  How about let me wrap this up and then the hand it 
  over to Carrie not me how about I wrap this up and then handed 
  over to Carrie and Sharon to talk about in general what one thing 
  I really wanted to make sure is that people Brian Richter has 
  done fantastic work on this I wanted to acknowledge you know his 
  great work putting the verifier Parts in the playground and 
  getting that up and running he's been working for months.
Manu Sporny:   It's to make it happen so thank you very much 
  Brian for.
Manu Sporny:  That stuff together.
<dmitri_zagidulin> @Aseem - what kind of software are you hoping 
  to enter the plugfest with?
Manu Sporny:  The only thing I didn't mention here was the 
  ability to set select multiple back-end issuers and multiple 
  back-end verifiers but I'm hearing that that is not a focus you 
  know this time around we want to focus on the wallets thing so 
  I'm going to stop sharing and then go back into the background at 
  this point.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Excellent okay and as you may see your 
  question about without holder wallet but we'll get back to that 
  in just a second so let's see who wants to do pants yeah so 
  carries on the Queue go ahead and then I'll share my thoughts on 
  this as well go ahead Carrie.
<phil_t3> If this is to test the VP process which is intended to 
  batch together a credential stack, wouldn't that make a single 
  credential per exchange out of scope?
Kerri Lemoie:  Hey there you know for once everybody I'm actually 
  sitting next to Sharon person because I'm in Boulder Colorado 
  badge Summit so we were just chatting about this because he 
  hadn't actually really discussed this so I'm glad you brought it 
  up Heather so the preference is that the credentials be combined 
  in a presentation and that's because it's a it's a better user 
  experience right you'd rather be that okay these are the 
  credentials you need go to those credentials packaging them up 
  and return them back so ideally.
Kerri Lemoie:  It be packaged together in the presentation.
<heather_carle_(territorium)> Ok thanks
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Alex C so chaotic go ahead you're next.
Kayode Ezike:  So this is a question from Manu and so I was 
  wondering for the verifier demo that you just showed kind of what 
  the format of the request looks like is it going to be something 
  like a verifiable presentation request when you click on that 
  button to request the credentials from the wallet or and and it's 
  so what would that look like.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah excellent question so it depends on the 
  protocol so that the chappie playground /vc playground is 
  protocol agnostic depending on the the mechanism that is picked 
  me try to be more specific so we're trying to be a protocol 
  agnostic in so if you're using let me do issuance.
Manu Sporny:   For example if.
Manu Sporny:  ID for BCI then the request will come over using 
  that mechanism one way that it can happen is a VPR can talk about 
  interaction modes and it can list like I support issuance using 
  the C API and oid for VP and did come in based on that you know 
  message that the wild guess.
Manu Sporny:   Yes it can.
Manu Sporny:  Which protocol it wants to use to do the issuance 
  process so that's documented right now and we are open to changes 
  or modifications you know based on what the community needs so 
  we're trying to make this infrastructure responsive to like what 
  the community needs to demonstrate interrupt so if that doesn't 
  work for people like please you know let everyone know on the on 
  the dev Channel or on the mailing list and then we can try and 
  make modifications.
Manu Sporny:  Coyote did that answer your question it's so sorry 
  that was the General answer the more specific answer that you 
  asked was like for the verified demo for presentations we only so 
  I think what's being said is the presentations are expected to be 
  multi-shot presentations meaning that when you present the thing 
  to the verifier you are expected to have three verifiable 
  credentials.
Manu Sporny:   He's in there in one shot it's.
<kerri_lemoie> That's correct, Manu.
Manu Sporny:  At one and then present the second one and then 
  present the third one we only know how to do that in a verifiable 
  presentation request so verifiable presentation supports it 
  verifiable presentation request support said we don't know how 
  the community wants to do that with oid for VP yet and we're 
  looking for the oid for VP Community to propose something so that 
  we.
Manu Sporny:   I can build that in the playground so.
<nikos_voutsinas> Is the deployment of CHAPI a prerequisite for 
  this PF3?
Manu Sporny:  Again to be to be clear the yd 4 VC VC I is fairly 
  straightforward because I think everyone said like you expect 
  people to pick those credentials up one at a time and oid for VCI 
  supports that however oid for VP I don't know if there is a 
  profile today that supports Multi Shot presentation I think the 
  underlying presentation exchange object supports it but I don't 
  know what the communities using for.
Manu Sporny:   For multi-shot presentation with oid for VP.
<kayode_ezike> Great, thanks for clarifying that @Manu
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I believe I believe that's currently being 
  finalized by the combination of diff and 084 VP community so 
  previously they were using presentation exchange version 2 I 
  believe they're racing to finalize another.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Iteration of presentation exchange of 
  simplified iteration presentations change let's say 2.1.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Things like using it in front bloodfest 3 
  let's see who else is on the Queue Sharon go ahead.
Sharon Leu:  I don't actually have much something to add I was 
  just going to say that like you I think that like this is a 
  complicated issue and I would hate for us to be sort of setting 
  down precedent for doing something that ultimately is not sort of 
  good for the long-term like sort of vision of like this 
  particular protocol so I feel like even though for us the 
  presentation which is the package of individual credentials is 
  sort of the goal.
Sharon Leu:   Goal if 2.12.
<niels_klomp_-_sphereon> I can comment on PE 2.1 etc
Sharon Leu:  Quickly enough or if there are other sort of 
  intermediary solutions that the community wants to try out on the 
  way to that sort of more perfect specification then we can 
  entertain that I think that this is certainly to carries point 
  because we see the creation of the verifiable presentation as the 
  way that it's technically manifests our functional use case which 
  is a lot of the use cases that are either in the VC use case 
  document or the VC Andrews case stuff.
Sharon Leu:   Doing that which is individuals bundling a set of 
  credentials for.
Sharon Leu:  I'm kind of.
Sharon Leu:  That's like an application to a job or an 
  institution so we certainly want to get there as a goal and we 
  understand that there are some Club complexity in there and we do 
  want to work with you on figuring out what is the best solution 
  for everyone on this call and then for the long ride so I just 
  wanted to say that there's not really I'm not like adding 
  anything to the technical conversation just sort of describing 
  our functional use case but it seems I'm I don't know if that is 
  helpful that I see meals with his hand up and say I wonder if 
  Neil's wanted to contribute to that.
Sharon Leu:   As well.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Meals to you I thank you so much for 
  clarifying do you remember in the did come to world.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Is it not fairly common to be able to request 
  multiple credentials in okay yeah.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I'm in any other questions that people have 
  that we can answer in the next 8 minutes that we have.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Excellent that means we've answered all 
  questions no so we encourage obviously we have a couple of these 
  open discussions about what are we considering.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  As headless wallets and whether such a thing 
  can exist on the learner worker level.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  After this this notion of what do the open ID 
  for VP folks do far from multiple credentials that that's still 
  sort of discussion so we're going to continue these conversations 
  on the mailing list and in the slack Channel and of course.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   I'm not sure.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Sharon and Kari and I are planning another one 
  of these plugfest specific VC edu calls before September.
<kerri_lemoie> We can if folks want it
<niels_klomp_-_sphereon> For OID4VP it has to be 1 VP with 
  multiple credentials, as there would be no way to connect 
  multiple presentation definitions together
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah so Carrie mentions in chat that we can 
  schedule another one of these calls if there's a demand for it 
  Kerry guide.
<manu_sporny> Agree with Niels... unless server keeps state.
Kerri Lemoie:  There's only wondering in terms of this oid see 
  for those of you who are using that when would be a good time 
  good timing for us to make a final decision on it because it 
  sounds like we don't know when the decisions will be made and 
  chewy yeah I just want to put you all they make you wait on us 
  for this so let us know when you think you really want to know 
  the answer by we'll just go with that for this podcast just so 
  you're not left hanging.
<manu_sporny> Like, the server would have to start a series of 
  OID4VP exchanges... taking one in at a time... and do the linking 
  on the server.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Let's see so some mono in chat is saying.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah so nice pointed out that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  You're going to go ahead and yeah you can 
  explain better.
<kerri_lemoie> Meant OID4 - not OIDC4 - sorry :)
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I I'm I'm thinking out loud with Nils on how 
  ID for VP could possibly work for this plugfest if they can only 
  do or if it can only do single-shot credentials now there's a 
  possibility of us adding something to the VC playground that 
  keeps State on the server that will receive multiple oid for.
Manu Sporny:   PP presentations one.
Manu Sporny:  Time and then do The Binding of all those 
  credentials together on the server but I mean like this is 
  there's there's probably a better way to do this so I'm so sorry 
  I didn't want it to come across this like that's the only way it 
  could work clearly the community probably has a you know better 
  mechanism than that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you and.
<manu_sporny> Yes, I agree with Niels.
<niels_klomp_-_sphereon> To be clear you can have multiple VPs in 
  one exchange
<niels_klomp_-_sphereon> And then have 1 or more VCs per VP
<niels_klomp_-_sphereon> But there is not really a defined way to 
  have multiple VPs in serial order
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Go ahead wonderful thank you David and we 
  appreciate your leadership in the previous log vests as well as 
  this one real quick before before we adjourn one of the questions 
  from I think it was the mailing list asking specifically what is 
  the verifier going to verify on the other end.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  As we know in the community there's difference 
  between verification and validation verification being 
  essentially just checking the signature and then validation can 
  have any number of steps that are business rules specific so 
  expiration whether or not the issuer is in a known issue or list 
  all sorts of other steps so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   For plug.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  We're just expecting the signature to validate 
  and we do expect did authentication / holder binding meaning 
  their five presentation that gets handed off by the wallet needs 
  to be signed with the users did.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So hopefully that answers that question.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Anyone else last moment.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Oh great question that's that's over to Sharon 
  can issuers.
<niels_klomp_-_sphereon> It would be good to have some verifiers, 
  like I also mentioned last call
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Participate or I don't know get a badge for 
  the previous blood test versions.
<niels_klomp_-_sphereon> Otherwise you are only testing interop 
  between wallets and 1 verifier
Sharon Leu:  I mean okay so I okay so this is a great question 
  because one of the ongoing conversations that we have is how to 
  continue to grow this community and obviously we want the 
  community of issuers to be able to issue credentials into 
  multiple logs as well so we don't have the solution for you right 
  now but I think that we will have an answer to your question in 
  the next two to four months as far as like what we do for right 
  now I think out all of the documentation and the credentials and 
  the technical information for what issuers did to earn their.
Sharon Leu:   Plug those two badge were available are available 
  on the plumpest to website so you should feel free to play 
  around.
Sharon Leu:  Send me a message if you would like to talk more 
  about this and you can be part of like the solution that we.
Sharon Leu:  So if you if you have a verifier solution I would 
  love to talk to you so definitely send me a note and like will 
  try to work that out.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you azim thank you Sharon.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right we are at the top of the hour thank 
  you everyone I've there's any questions left unanswered has asked 
  on the VC edu mailing list and on the slack Channel thanks again 
  see you all next week.
