[2021-11-16T21:02:24.259Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:02:24.260Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:02:24.261Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:02:24.261Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	scribe+
[2021-11-16T21:02:24.261Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:02:24.262Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:02:44.939Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:03:21.687Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:03:56.988Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:04:00.558Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:04:06.674Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:04:25.803Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:04:30.831Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:05:03.400Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Nov/0081.html
[2021-11-16T21:05:05.428Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Chair: manu
[2021-11-16T21:05:08.348Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Welcome to VC API call, thanks to the scribe, agenda is here.
[2021-11-16T21:05:30.258Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: We'll be doing issue processing, currently 87 open issues.
[2021-11-16T21:05:36.016Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Any updates or changes to the agenda?
[2021-11-16T21:05:46.828Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:06:00.097Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Introductions, anyone new to the call?
[2021-11-16T21:06:08.078Z]	<Mike_Varley>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:06:08.227Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Anyone would like to re-introduce?
[2021-11-16T21:06:11.045Z]	<Juan_caballero>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:06:30.448Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Relevant Community Updates
[2021-11-16T21:06:47.701Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Does anyone have relevant community updates?
[2021-11-16T21:07:39.668Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: One thing worth mentioning.. I'm expecting that the SVIP will have an interop plugfest, people may want to set new interop targets. There may be discussion around that.
[2021-11-16T21:07:52.425Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Any other plugfests that will use the VC API?
[2021-11-16T21:08:16.274Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Maybe from juancaballero ?
[2021-11-16T21:08:32.897Z]	<cel>	q+ about JWS Test Suite
[2021-11-16T21:08:40.082Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: I know that Orie has said that he would like us to focus on did:key for use in VC API.
[2021-11-16T21:08:48.597Z]	<Juan_caballero>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:09:00.971Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Digital Bazaar is interested in Ed25519Signature2020, also refresh list functionality for next plugfest.
[2021-11-16T21:09:02.644Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack cel
[2021-11-16T21:09:30.272Z]	<markus_sabadello>	cel: I don't think "it" adds new requirements, but gets implementers to interop.
[2021-11-16T21:09:32.945Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: What is "it" ?
[2021-11-16T21:09:53.823Z]	<markus_sabadello>	cel: The interop in the test suite. There are different implementations being tested there.
[2021-11-16T21:10:01.909Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack dmi
[2021-11-16T21:10:31.953Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:10:34.385Z]	<markus_sabadello>	dmitriz: One proposed requirement in one issue is for the VC API to support a use case of interactive issuer/verifier sessions.
[2021-11-16T21:10:50.713Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:11:06.825Z]	<dmitriz>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/245
[2021-11-16T21:12:02.058Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: It's a really well written issue, we should add this as an agenda item.
[2021-11-16T21:12:16.552Z]	<markus_sabadello>	dmitriz: Sounds great
[2021-11-16T21:12:31.734Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Any other community related things before we move on?
[2021-11-16T21:12:42.110Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Issue Processing
[2021-11-16T21:13:02.919Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/71
[2021-11-16T21:13:41.436Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	@Dimitri, this is of equal importance and value for the verifier sent a batch of credentials in a presentation
[2021-11-16T21:13:59.561Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2021-11-16T21:14:09.797Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Markus and Orie have commented. Joe_Andrieu do you have thoughts on this?
[2021-11-16T21:14:12.719Z]	<dmitriz>	@Phil_L -- agreed
[2021-11-16T21:14:32.469Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:14:41.198Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2021-11-16T21:14:52.235Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Joe_Andrieu: This came up as a gap in the diagrams. The ability of a holder storage to be accessed by people other than a holder, this is up for conversation.
[2021-11-16T21:14:58.002Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Joe_Andrieu: I think it's a reasonable request
[2021-11-16T21:15:28.190Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to mention webhooks / callbacks
[2021-11-16T21:15:37.961Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack joe
[2021-11-16T21:15:39.353Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack agrop
[2021-11-16T21:15:47.923Z]	<Orie>	there are currently no defined API for Issuer->Holder flows in this api.
[2021-11-16T21:15:49.181Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q?
[2021-11-16T21:15:51.444Z]	<markus_sabadello>	agropper: This falls in the category of what is the scope of VC API for an issuer. If we start with this being in scope, then it's clear that the request can indicate whatever. But I'm not clear how we are scoping the Issuer part of the API. I think of Issuer to be separate from Holder and Verifier.
[2021-11-16T21:15:57.186Z]	<markus_sabadello>	agropper: Is the request phase in scope for the VC API.
[2021-11-16T21:16:06.997Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Yes it is, because we defined it in a flow
[2021-11-16T21:16:11.111Z]	<markus_sabadello>	agropper: Then how is this special?
[2021-11-16T21:16:14.956Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack joe
[2021-11-16T21:16:47.961Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Joe_Andrieu: The conceptual challenge with this topic is we have currently envisioned most of these endpoints to be request-response, so we don't have good support for interactive flow.
[2021-11-16T21:17:13.441Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Joe_Andrieu: If we want to initiate flows and then have callbacks, then that callback should be in scope. That would allow an asynchronous flow.
[2021-11-16T21:17:30.408Z]	<Orie>	here is an example of issuer to holder flows using didcomm: https://identity.foundation/waci-presentation-exchange/#issuance-2
[2021-11-16T21:17:41.926Z]	<Orie>	this recently got added to the waci-pex scope.
[2021-11-16T21:17:50.067Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Anyone wants to push this issue forward?
[2021-11-16T21:18:01.133Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:18:04.579Z]	<Mike_Varley>	q+
[2021-11-16T21:18:06.499Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2021-11-16T21:18:12.154Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mike
[2021-11-16T21:18:25.618Z]	<dmitriz>	Orie -- oh interesting, thanks. (re the waci issuance link)
[2021-11-16T21:18:59.121Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Mike_Varley: If there's an issuer e.g. of a background check, this can take 24h to process. The human interaction with the issuer takes place, then there is a 24h period where the credential isn't available, then when the background check is complete you want to push it to the wallet.
[2021-11-16T21:19:09.308Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Mike_Varley: I think this can be solved in other ways, maybe outside of this API.
[2021-11-16T21:19:30.304Z]	<juancaballero>	steep
[2021-11-16T21:19:32.390Z]	<Orie>	DIDComm is the solution! :)
[2021-11-16T21:19:43.777Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Mike_Varley: I work with Troy. I'm willing to let this issue sit until someone comes with a concrete use case that they want to see implemented. There may be better ways of implementing this use case that don't impact this API.
[2021-11-16T21:19:54.436Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Mike_Varley: E.g. the holder gets an out-of-band notification.
[2021-11-16T21:20:16.552Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Mike_Varley: I think it's okay for this issue to sit for now until we figure out if this is needed.
[2021-11-16T21:20:36.251Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack agrop
[2021-11-16T21:20:37.439Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Suggestion that someone needs to come up with a concrete use case.
[2021-11-16T21:20:37.750Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-11-16T21:20:51.644Z]	<markus_sabadello>	agropper: Do we have a tag for "authorization"? I suggest this issue be tagged with it.
[2021-11-16T21:21:19.823Z]	<markus_sabadello>	agropper: I might be willing to be assigned this, because I think it is in part an authorization issue, and I'm available to try move all authorization issues forward.
[2021-11-16T21:21:37.031Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Agree this is related to authorization, we have that tag, just added it to the issue.
[2021-11-16T21:22:41.097Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: (changing Github settings to add agropper to the vc-api repo, so the issue can be assigned to him)
[2021-11-16T21:23:16.477Z]	<markus_sabadello>	agropper: I would be willing to work with other people on the previous issue 245 as well.
[2021-11-16T21:23:57.415Z]	<dmitriz>	I'd also be willing to be assigned issue 245 :)
[2021-11-16T21:24:18.811Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/79
[2021-11-16T21:24:23.085Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: This is done, right?
[2021-11-16T21:24:25.617Z]	<dmitriz>	(I don't think 245 is quite authorization related; orthogonal to authorization)
[2021-11-16T21:24:53.775Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie: Is the test suite published correctly? Is the NPM package published?
[2021-11-16T21:25:02.217Z]	<juancaballero>	NO COMMENT
[2021-11-16T21:25:16.986Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie: CCG should not manage NPM packages
[2021-11-16T21:25:31.385Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1
[2021-11-16T21:25:33.459Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Agree with Orie, CCG should not publish NPM packages. Any objections to this position?
[2021-11-16T21:26:47.493Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Should we take it down from NPM?
[2021-11-16T21:27:03.997Z]	<Orie>	btw the test suite is still rendering properly...
[2021-11-16T21:27:04.563Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api-test-suite/test-suite/transmute/
[2021-11-16T21:27:11.535Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Joe_Andrieu: Should the "w3c-ccg" name be held so it doesn't get used by others?
[2021-11-16T21:27:23.585Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Anyone disagree with this statement?
[2021-11-16T21:27:34.867Z]	<Orie>	but there is not "index.html" at root level
[2021-11-16T21:27:46.398Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api-test-suite
[2021-11-16T21:28:02.809Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-11-16T21:28:09.037Z]	<juancaballero>	q+
[2021-11-16T21:28:11.534Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Next step is for CCG chairs to communicate this more broadly and ask for CCG consensus.
[2021-11-16T21:28:57.437Z]	<markus_sabadello>	juancaballero: Orie mentioned in chat there is no index.html for the root.
[2021-11-16T21:28:58.475Z]	<Orie>	raise an issue.
[2021-11-16T21:29:23.430Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Marked this as pending close.
[2021-11-16T21:29:29.490Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api-test-suite
[2021-11-16T21:29:34.285Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/88
[2021-11-16T21:29:55.567Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Orie, some background on this?
[2021-11-16T21:30:47.926Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie: We talked about what verifying a VC would mean. VP has certain requirements, but is loose in some ways. You can have a VP that has multiple VCs but doesn't itself have a proof. This was resolved in another PR.
[2021-11-16T21:30:59.497Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie: I propose we close this issue since this has been addressed in the test suite.
[2021-11-16T21:31:34.773Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie: This was resolved in test suite PR 113
[2021-11-16T21:31:42.937Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/80
[2021-11-16T21:32:10.542Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie: There are fixtures in the test suite repo which make verifying difficult. This is one of them.
[2021-11-16T21:32:13.002Z]	<Juan_caballero>	present+
[2021-11-16T21:32:16.465Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: I will move it to vc-api-test-suite
[2021-11-16T21:32:32.788Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie: Having it in a separate repo means we need to groom the issues here.
[2021-11-16T21:32:53.501Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/81
[2021-11-16T21:32:57.809Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/82
[2021-11-16T21:33:12.109Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: I will transfer these as well to vc-api-test-suite
[2021-11-16T21:33:16.826Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie: Yep makes sense
[2021-11-16T21:33:35.250Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api-test-suite/issues/14
[2021-11-16T21:34:27.816Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: (technical difficulties with moving issues)
[2021-11-16T21:35:15.260Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/41
[2021-11-16T21:35:46.025Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Mike_Varley any comment on this one?
[2021-11-16T21:35:47.251Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-11-16T21:36:06.672Z]	<juancaballero>	q-
[2021-11-16T21:36:17.604Z]	<manu>	scribe+
[2021-11-16T21:36:19.933Z]	<juancaballero>	sorry technical difficulties here too
[2021-11-16T21:36:45.026Z]	<manu>	markus_sabadello: This has to do with the earlier versions of the API where the API was also composing credentials, this particular issue is about scenario where API reaches out to datastore to get claim values.
[2021-11-16T21:36:57.448Z]	<Orie>	in a world where issuer = (template, args) => Promise<vc>
[2021-11-16T21:36:59.362Z]	<manu>	markus_sabadello: Instead of client composing credential, client only calls API w/ part of the information.
[2021-11-16T21:37:13.204Z]	<Mike_Varley>	q+
[2021-11-16T21:37:23.490Z]	<markus_sabadello>	scribe+
[2021-11-16T21:37:23.490Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Overtaken by events? We don't do this anymore?
[2021-11-16T21:37:29.527Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mark
[2021-11-16T21:37:31.428Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mike
[2021-11-16T21:37:36.257Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: We made the design decision that you call the API after you get all the information
[2021-11-16T21:37:46.757Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Mike_Varley: I think we made this out of scope.
[2021-11-16T21:38:39.103Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Closed this issue.
[2021-11-16T21:38:55.154Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/87
[2021-11-16T21:39:17.380Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie: It's somehow related to templates. Ability to issue a batch of thousands of credentials.
[2021-11-16T21:39:38.638Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie: Community opinion seems to be to not support batches and call API separately for each credential.
[2021-11-16T21:40:17.228Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie: If we want to support this, many additional issues may come up (e.g. around revocation). Batching is complicated.
[2021-11-16T21:40:19.857Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-11-16T21:40:26.596Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack mark
[2021-11-16T21:40:59.377Z]	<manu>	markus_sabadello: The idea that there would be a template is similar to previous issue -- some sort of composing happens inside of implementations. This is out of scope for this reason, we don't want to do composing as well as reasons that Orie mentioned.
[2021-11-16T21:41:43.708Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-11-16T21:41:52.945Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Any objections to closing?
[2021-11-16T21:41:54.679Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-11-16T21:42:00.569Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Closing that one
[2021-11-16T21:42:12.186Z]	<manu>	ack mark
[2021-11-16T21:42:24.971Z]	<manu>	markus_sabadello: I know we want to process issues in this order, can we do #51? It's a duplicate?
[2021-11-16T21:42:42.088Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/51
[2021-11-16T21:43:28.987Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Posting a comment that the group decided batching is out of scope for this version of the API.
[2021-11-16T21:43:35.119Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2021-11-16T21:43:38.230Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Any objections to closing?
[2021-11-16T21:43:45.545Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Closed that issue.
[2021-11-16T21:44:17.907Z]	<markus_sabadello>	TallTed: Do we have a label "defer to next version"? Batching is not an anti-pattern by itself. It's fine to not have it in this version, but maybe we should pick it up in future versions?
[2021-11-16T21:44:32.529Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: I think if it's important enough for people, new issues will be opened.
[2021-11-16T21:44:54.298Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: I tried to be careful with saying "out of scope for this version".
[2021-11-16T21:44:54.753Z]	<dmitriz>	what if.. we tag it, but ALSO close it?
[2021-11-16T21:45:00.610Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Do you want us to do something else?
[2021-11-16T21:45:15.156Z]	<markus_sabadello>	TallTed: I would prefer to have a tag so it's easy to search.
[2021-11-16T21:45:43.679Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: I'm happy if people want to revisit this in a future version.
[2021-11-16T21:45:50.154Z]	<dmitriz>	yessssss +1, more memes.
[2021-11-16T21:46:03.220Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie: We should have more memes in the descriptoin.
[2021-11-16T21:46:27.449Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Anyone else thinks we should re-open the batching topic and label it for v2.
[2021-11-16T21:46:35.573Z]	<markus_sabadello>	TallTed: It could remain closed but still have the label.
[2021-11-16T21:46:38.127Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Okay
[2021-11-16T21:48:20.914Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/100
[2021-11-16T21:48:42.319Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Also applying the same "v2" label and closing.
[2021-11-16T21:49:20.201Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: If there are no objections, I want to take a look at the architectural overview PR.
[2021-11-16T21:49:23.421Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Any objections?
[2021-11-16T21:49:32.045Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Pull Request Review
[2021-11-16T21:49:38.190Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pull/237
[2021-11-16T21:50:14.624Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Joe put together diagrams of the ecosystem, we discussed this quite a bit, there seemed to be buy-in. agropper objected and asked for explanatory text. You authored that text.
[2021-11-16T21:50:35.981Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Some people pushed back, saying this is about the diagram, not about the introduction. Dmitri seemed to have some concerns, Joe responded.
[2021-11-16T21:51:02.883Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2021-11-16T21:51:11.790Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack agropper
[2021-11-16T21:51:13.594Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: agropper you could agree that we create a new issue and new PR to talk about the introductory text and consider this orthogonal to the diagram; or you assert that you want to discuss the text as part of the PR and it has to go in together with the PR.
[2021-11-16T21:52:05.699Z]	<markus_sabadello>	agropper: IIRC, you asked me not to reference the diagram specifically. I then chose to move up to the introduction to further my goal. I don't have a strong feel. I think the issue of the introduction needs to be taken up, it's a scoping issue for everything that follows. I don't particularly care if we do it as part of this PR, or as an issue.
[2021-11-16T21:52:06.443Z]	<Orie>	seperate PRs are preferred.
[2021-11-16T21:52:52.940Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: How about we open a new issue that says we need to update the introduction to talk about the things you mention. agropper I would like you to copy your text into a new issue about updating the introduction to speak about delegation. You could raise this as a PR.
[2021-11-16T21:53:15.458Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Separate this out from the diagram, this could remove the objection to merge the diagram, then we look at your PR. Does that work for you?
[2021-11-16T21:53:16.886Z]	<markus_sabadello>	agropper: Yes
[2021-11-16T21:53:39.488Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to ask Dmitri about his concern
[2021-11-16T21:54:45.226Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: (creating new issue 252 with agropper 's text)
[2021-11-16T21:55:09.002Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: PR 237 should now be unblocked. dmitriz do you have concerns?
[2021-11-16T21:55:14.237Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack joe
[2021-11-16T21:55:26.254Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Joe_Andrieu: Just wanted to see if my response addresses dmitriz 's concerns
[2021-11-16T21:55:59.552Z]	<markus_sabadello>	dmitriz: I think my main ask is it would be great to have a key to the shapes of the diagrams, to tell what the ovals, rectangles, etc. mean.
[2021-11-16T21:56:05.551Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: I will re-base and merge
[2021-11-16T21:57:28.043Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Let's talk about next week. It's Thanksgiving in the US, many meetings are canceled, I propose we do the same. We can review PRs in the week after that.
[2021-11-16T21:57:37.280Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Will this cause problems for cel or markus_sabadello ?
[2021-11-16T21:57:47.974Z]	<markus_sabadello>	cel: That's okay
[2021-11-16T21:57:49.658Z]	<markus_sabadello>	markus_sabadello: for me too
[2021-11-16T21:58:16.209Z]	<Orie>	+1 to no meetings in december
[2021-11-16T21:58:18.779Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Therefore no meeting next week, we will meet again after Thanksgiving, I suggest the we then have no meetings in December to give people a break.
[2021-11-16T21:58:22.114Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Any last comments?
[2021-11-16T21:58:49.637Z]	<TallTed>	so next call is Jan 5 ?
[2021-11-16T21:59:08.770Z]	<Mike_Varley>	thanks all!
[2021-11-16T21:59:11.936Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Thanks to the scribe, thank you everyone, we were super productive. Happy Thanksgiving to those who celebrate it. bye
[2021-11-16T21:59:33.497Z]	<markus_sabadello>	TallTed, no, next meeting is Nov 29
[2021-11-16T21:59:46.640Z]	<markus_sabadello>	TallTed, sorry Nov 30
