[2020-11-10T16:56:54.353Z]  <> agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Nov/0038.html
[2020-11-10T16:56:54.353Z]  <> scribe: gannan
[2020-11-10T16:56:54.353Z]  <Wayne_Chang>   If you have joined the Jitsi meeting, please note that today's meeting will be held on Zoom as communicated in the agenda: https://zoom.us/j/94614248307?pwd=Y25aQVBMc2h5OW1Jd09QdjZBNk1Zdz09
[2020-11-10T16:57:49.101Z]  <wayne> present+
[2020-11-10T17:00:02.655Z]  <Mike_Prorock>  present+
[2020-11-10T17:00:39.976Z]  <heathervescent>    present+
[2020-11-10T17:01:03.786Z]  <mprorock>  present+
[2020-11-10T17:01:50.695Z]  <justin_r>  present+
[2020-11-10T17:02:36.506Z]  <ottonomy>  present+
[2020-11-10T17:03:04.171Z]  <econnell>  present+
[2020-11-10T17:03:33.244Z]  <aaronpk>   present+
[2020-11-10T17:04:02.947Z]  <Brian> present+
[2020-11-10T17:04:03.407Z]  <cel>   present+
[2020-11-10T17:04:10.053Z]  <JamesChartrand>    present+
[2020-11-10T17:06:38.853Z]  <gannan>    aaronpk: joining call for the first time, co-editor of GNAP Document
[2020-11-10T17:06:45.732Z]  <chriswinc> present+
[2020-11-10T17:06:55.154Z]  <gannan>    fabien: also working with Justin on GNAP
[2020-11-10T17:07:04.529Z]  <heathervescent>    Note: we are meeting today in Zoom.
[2020-11-10T17:07:14.417Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-11-10T17:07:18.815Z]  <gannan>    wayne: reintroductions?
[2020-11-10T17:08:36.443Z]  <kimhd> present+
[2020-11-10T17:08:49.135Z]  <gannan>    wayne: DID WG had its F2F last week, all DID WG meetings cancelled this week... made progress on Abstract Data Model... please check out the notes
[2020-11-10T17:08:52.933Z]  <dlongley>  present+
[2020-11-10T17:08:59.890Z]  <wayne> https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-11-10T17:09:05.593Z]  <gannan>    wayne: progress on action items...
[2020-11-10T17:09:22.989Z]  <gannan>    ...general update on Jitsi
[2020-11-10T17:09:31.212Z]  <dmitriz>   present+
[2020-11-10T17:09:36.072Z]  <gannan>    ...we're still working on efforts on Jitsi towards stability
[2020-11-10T17:09:48.261Z]  <gannan>    ...Manu Sporny from Digital Bazaar is working on it
[2020-11-10T17:10:00.252Z]  <gannan>    ...looking to do more trials and smooth issues
[2020-11-10T17:10:09.508Z]  <gannan>    ...he's been doing updates and patching servers
[2020-11-10T17:11:17.227Z]  <gannan>    heathervescent: documentation that kim presented last time we met...
[2020-11-10T17:11:34.192Z]  <gannan>    ...is an ongoing community draft
[2020-11-10T17:11:38.931Z]  <gannan>    ...we can additions and changes
[2020-11-10T17:11:46.744Z]  <gannan>    ...in lieu of making our items more accessible
[2020-11-10T17:12:00.139Z]  <gannan>    ...and promoting diversity and inclusion
[2020-11-10T17:12:09.818Z]  <gannan>    ...want to explain what one is doing without jargon
[2020-11-10T17:12:24.717Z]  <heathervescent>    Heilmeier Catechism: https://www.darpa.mil/work-with-us/heilmeier-catechism
[2020-11-10T17:12:46.949Z]  <gannan>    ...in the work item, would like folks to use Heilmeier Catechism
[2020-11-10T17:13:03.561Z]  <gannan>    ...the process of going through it helps to figure out what one is trying to do
[2020-11-10T17:13:13.075Z]  <gannan>    ... we are an insider community and we use jargon as a shortcut
[2020-11-10T17:13:30.973Z]  <gannan>    ... it works well for those in the community, however it is an obstacle for those outside of the community
[2020-11-10T17:13:41.523Z]  <gannan>    ... my request is to answer these questions as a part of the work item
[2020-11-10T17:13:52.844Z]  <gannan>    ... please take the time to answer these questions
[2020-11-10T17:14:47.988Z]  <gannan>    heathervescent: (goes through the list of questions)
[2020-11-10T17:15:19.775Z]  <gannan>    heathervescent: going back to the other one...
[2020-11-10T17:15:35.816Z]  <gannan>    ... we wanted to add a request or best practices for increasing diversity and inclusion in your work item
[2020-11-10T17:15:51.407Z]  <gannan>    ... we did not want to put a requirement for you need X with Y background
[2020-11-10T17:15:57.898Z]  <gannan>    ... we want to know your thinking
[2020-11-10T17:16:35.560Z]  <gannan>    ... example, how do you plan to involve other SMEs or end users?
[2020-11-10T17:16:52.833Z]  <gannan>    ... the answers to these questions will help make our work more accessible to a broader market
[2020-11-10T17:17:13.528Z]  <gannan>    ... these are two additional requests
[2020-11-10T17:17:27.356Z]  <gannan>    ... these requests may look a little onerous or hard
[2020-11-10T17:17:55.094Z]  <gannan>    ... we want to make it easier by creating a pool of resources
[2020-11-10T17:18:06.303Z]  <gannan>    ... we are looking for experts outside of our community group
[2020-11-10T17:18:12.819Z]  <gannan>    ... we do not have this pool of resources right now
[2020-11-10T17:18:19.851Z]  <gannan>    ... we are looking to increase and build it
[2020-11-10T17:18:29.473Z]  <wayne> https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/138
[2020-11-10T17:18:37.354Z]  <gannan>    ... we can do this through both qualitative and quantitative methods
[2020-11-10T17:18:48.705Z]  <gannan>    ... the folks who work on work items tend to be the same people
[2020-11-10T17:19:02.955Z]  <gannan>    ... we want to put a positive spin on including new folks
[2020-11-10T17:19:15.337Z]  <gannan>    ... we want to lower the barrier for those folks to participate
[2020-11-10T17:19:22.583Z]  <gannan>    ... looking for peer leadership
[2020-11-10T17:20:14.145Z]  <gannan>    ... a similar concept to peer programming, we would like to recommend leaders of work items go out and look and recruit and find folks that are interested in participating and or leading a work item in the future but dont want to initially take on the full responsibility
[2020-11-10T17:20:51.479Z]  <gannan>    ... this is in the spirit so that those in the future can work on work items in the future and support leadership in the community
[2020-11-10T17:21:01.200Z]  <gannan>    wayne: next is co-chair elections
[2020-11-10T17:21:14.032Z]  <gannan>    ... we want to figure out the best strategy for community group elections
[2020-11-10T17:21:22.832Z]  <gannan>    ... we have different needs to our group
[2020-11-10T17:21:34.704Z]  <gannan>    ... we are actively working on this
[2020-11-10T17:21:56.088Z]  <gannan>    wayne: next is GNAP being led by Justin Richer
[2020-11-10T17:22:20.101Z]  <gannan>    ... would be great to introduce oauth2
[2020-11-10T17:22:22.133Z]  <justin_r>  Links you're about to see in the presentation:      https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/gnap/about/       https://github.com/ietf-wg-gnap/core-protocol/          https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/txauth       https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-gnap-core-protocol-01.html
[2020-11-10T17:22:26.387Z]  <gannan>    justin_r: thank you
[2020-11-10T17:23:16.456Z]  <tayken>    present+
[2020-11-10T17:23:18.055Z]  <gannan>    justin_r: GNAP is a new working group in IETF...
[2020-11-10T17:23:47.312Z]  <gannan>    ... right now the WG is just now getting started
[2020-11-10T17:24:03.572Z]  <gannan>    ... just finished working with a design team for an initial draft
[2020-11-10T17:24:18.546Z]  <gannan>    ... in the draft document there are lots of notes for decisions and choice points
[2020-11-10T17:24:28.430Z]  <gannan>    ... there are a couple of test implementations
[2020-11-10T17:24:44.334Z]  <gannan>    ... meeting next tuesday at midnight at my time
[2020-11-10T17:24:55.460Z]  <gannan>    ... all development is happening in the open in github
[2020-11-10T17:25:08.864Z]  <gannan>    ... this is not oauth2, nor an extension to oauth2
[2020-11-10T17:25:36.943Z]  <gannan>    ... this is not oauth3
[2020-11-10T17:25:48.196Z]  <gannan>    ... oatuh2 is not going anywhere
[2020-11-10T17:26:09.320Z]  <gannan>    ... we have had it for over a decade and we need to look at the fundamental protocols and address new use cases
[2020-11-10T17:26:23.307Z]  <gannan>    ... we are solving this by separating concerns
[2020-11-10T17:26:39.574Z]  <gannan>    ... we wont be able to go into depth into each of them due to time constraints
[2020-11-10T17:26:53.331Z]  <gannan>    ... Access Negotiation, this is a delegation protocol
[2020-11-10T17:27:14.270Z]  <gannan>    ... oauth2 is a delegation protocol via the use of an authorization server
[2020-11-10T17:27:19.822Z]  <gannan>    ... with gnap we took a step back
[2020-11-10T17:27:35.844Z]  <gannan>    ... one, the one getting access is not making the authorization decision
[2020-11-10T17:27:43.431Z]  <gannan>    ... we see how that works with UMA
[2020-11-10T17:28:03.741Z]  <gannan>    ... with OIDC we see that it is important to get more data such as identity information
[2020-11-10T17:28:29.104Z]  <gannan>    ... with GNAP everything starts the same way and gets sorted out at runtime
[2020-11-10T17:28:44.675Z]  <gannan>    ... every requests is bound to key presentation
[2020-11-10T17:28:58.002Z]  <gannan>    ... we call this a negotiation because all roles have something to contribute
[2020-11-10T17:29:23.389Z]  <gannan>    ... we can work with dynamic and static resource clients in a consistent manner
[2020-11-10T17:29:56.592Z]  <gannan>    ... if the client can present a VC then that gives us a lot of power
[2020-11-10T17:30:07.696Z]  <gannan>    ... the client knows about what it wants to do and its posture
[2020-11-10T17:30:16.046Z]  <gannan>    ... the client knows how to deal with the user
[2020-11-10T17:30:37.360Z]  <gannan>    justin_r: Interaction, you want to interact anytime you need to get a human involved in the loop...
[2020-11-10T17:30:44.511Z]  <gannan>    ... this was the core innovation of oauth
[2020-11-10T17:30:52.251Z]  <gannan>    ... before oauth it was pre-defined binaries
[2020-11-10T17:31:09.852Z]  <gannan>    ... in oauth2 this assumes user has access to a browser
[2020-11-10T17:31:33.198Z]  <gannan>    ... with GNAP we structured it around negotiation of interactions
[2020-11-10T17:32:19.297Z]  <gannan>    ... (presents slide 21 explaining JSON)
[2020-11-10T17:32:45.619Z]  <gannan>    ... in GNAP there are a core set of interactions
[2020-11-10T17:33:27.645Z]  <gannan>    ... display static url, use cryptographic challenges, etc.
[2020-11-10T17:33:52.191Z]  <gannan>    justin_r: Client Software, in oauth2 we have a client_id...
[2020-11-10T17:34:17.196Z]  <gannan>    ...could be a specific web server, a web application, etc.
[2020-11-10T17:34:32.274Z]  <gannan>    ... in GNAP we have a resource client
[2020-11-10T17:34:46.995Z]  <gannan>    ... the authorization server assigns the client with an instance_id
[2020-11-10T17:34:58.426Z]  <gannan>    ... we put a client instance in the forefront
[2020-11-10T17:35:16.506Z]  <gannan>    ... some clients have many instances and some may have one
[2020-11-10T17:35:32.350Z]  <gannan>    ... one may want to tie many instances together
[2020-11-10T17:35:40.864Z]  <gannan>    ... every instance is bound to a key
[2020-11-10T17:35:57.358Z]  <gannan>    ... in oauth2 we use bearer tokens and client secrets
[2020-11-10T17:36:12.909Z]  <gannan>    ... oauth2 makes a lot of assumptions about bearer tokens and client secrets
[2020-11-10T17:36:24.546Z]  <gannan>    ... in GNAP we start with the assumption that you have a key
[2020-11-10T17:36:37.674Z]  <gannan>    ... you can always bind that key to the request that you're making
[2020-11-10T17:36:46.170Z]  <gannan>    ... this is sort-of client authentication
[2020-11-10T17:37:18.432Z]  <gannan>    ... presenting the key to the resource server represent the rights of the requestor
[2020-11-10T17:37:48.393Z]  <gannan>    ... in both cases we can use the same mechanisms
[2020-11-10T17:38:01.402Z]  <gannan>    ... we can use HTTP Sigs, JOSE, mTLS
[2020-11-10T17:38:09.019Z]  <gannan>    justin_r: Next is the Data Model...
[2020-11-10T17:38:15.851Z]  <gannan>    ... we have scopes in oauth2
[2020-11-10T17:38:42.556Z]  <gannan>    ... this ultimately is a space separated list
[2020-11-10T17:38:58.244Z]  <gannan>    ... in GNAP we have a multi dimensional list
[2020-11-10T17:39:15.694Z]  <gannan>    ... (presents slide 38 describing JSON)
[2020-11-10T17:39:38.790Z]  <gannan>    ... we have core fields used to determine what's being delegated
[2020-11-10T17:40:17.357Z]  <gannan>    ... you dont have to use the core fields
[2020-11-10T17:40:35.552Z]  <gannan>    ... if your api has specific terms then GNAP allows for that
[2020-11-10T17:40:50.209Z]  <gannan>    ... one thing scopes has going for it, is that they're simple
[2020-11-10T17:41:17.498Z]  <gannan>    ... do you have to have detailed objects now in GNAP? no.
[2020-11-10T17:41:46.296Z]  <gannan>    ... the auth server can map these detailed objects to a simple string
[2020-11-10T17:42:00.508Z]  <gannan>    ... this is sent in the same resource array
[2020-11-10T17:42:20.785Z]  <gannan>    ... JSON doesn't enforce types
[2020-11-10T17:42:32.590Z]  <gannan>    ... GNAP is strongly typed
[2020-11-10T17:43:18.278Z]  <gannan>    ... if you see an object that it's a fully detailed object if it's a string then it should be dereferenced
[2020-11-10T17:43:27.967Z]  <gannan>    ... the really cool thing is that you can combine things
[2020-11-10T17:43:41.892Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-11-10T17:43:44.969Z]  <gannan>    ... you can combine the pre-packaged strings with the detailed objects
[2020-11-10T17:43:58.232Z]  <gannan>    ... the RS and AS will know how to process those things
[2020-11-10T17:44:40.736Z]  <gannan>    ... in GNAP we allow for clients to request subject identifiers
[2020-11-10T17:44:52.008Z]  <gannan>    ... this is not going as far as building a full identity protocol
[2020-11-10T17:45:02.959Z]  <gannan>    justin_r: this is not oauth2...
[2020-11-10T17:45:11.373Z]  <gannan>    ... the syntax and mechanics are different
[2020-11-10T17:45:19.315Z]  <gannan>    ... and the assumptions are different
[2020-11-10T17:45:44.038Z]  <gannan>    ... however you can patch a lot of functionality into oauth2 that is close to GNAP
[2020-11-10T17:46:16.110Z]  <gannan>    ... all oauth2 extensions must live in auth2 world with all of its assumptions
[2020-11-10T17:46:25.344Z]  <gannan>    ... with GNAP we can take a step out
[2020-11-10T17:46:29.984Z]  <gannan>    ... what's next?
[2020-11-10T17:46:45.215Z]  <gannan>    ... next Tues. we will have a meeting
[2020-11-10T17:46:54.396Z]  <gannan>    ... we will get input from the community
[2020-11-10T17:47:04.003Z]  <gannan>    ... this is work that's going to take some time
[2020-11-10T17:47:19.159Z]  <gannan>    ... I encourage everyone in the ccg to contribute to the draft
[2020-11-10T17:47:32.842Z]  <gannan>    ... not every feature is going to make it
[2020-11-10T17:47:45.129Z]  <gannan>    ... hands-on engineering is fundamental for any standard
[2020-11-10T17:47:54.727Z]  <gannan>    ... IETF is open, please join the mailing list
[2020-11-10T17:48:09.726Z]  <gannan>    ... thank you, everyone.
[2020-11-10T17:48:22.572Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-11-10T17:48:37.123Z]  <wayne> q+
[2020-11-10T17:48:40.886Z]  <wayne> ack wayne
[2020-11-10T17:48:42.451Z]  <econnell>  is there a link to this presentation?
[2020-11-10T17:48:57.436Z]  <gannan>    wayne: is there a link to the presentation?
[2020-11-10T17:49:05.376Z]  <heathervescent>    and are there links to the github and group + mailing list?
[2020-11-10T17:49:08.127Z]  <gannan>    justin_r: I can work on putting the slides
[2020-11-10T17:49:11.654Z]  <econnell>  great, thank you
[2020-11-10T17:49:18.301Z]  <justin_r>  Links you're about to see in the presentation:      https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/gnap/about/       https://github.com/ietf-wg-gnap/core-protocol/          https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/txauth       https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-gnap-core-protocol-01.html
[2020-11-10T17:49:21.958Z]  <gannan>    ... the links I put are to the actual work, I believe that should be helpful
[2020-11-10T17:49:26.442Z]  <heathervescent>    Thank you!
[2020-11-10T17:49:34.745Z]  <gannan>    ... those are the same links from before
[2020-11-10T17:49:59.046Z]  <gannan>    wayne: with respect to before, looks like there are some similarities to UMA permission tickets...
[2020-11-10T17:50:10.705Z]  <gannan>    ... how would you formalize this?
[2020-11-10T17:50:21.256Z]  <gannan>    justin_r: I served as co-editor to the UMA 2 spec...
[2020-11-10T17:50:33.679Z]  <gannan>    ... a lot of the issues comes from having to live in the oauth world
[2020-11-10T17:50:37.944Z]  <gannan>    ... we had many limits
[2020-11-10T17:50:55.773Z]  <gannan>    ... the value of permission tickets gives us the ability to model ongoing requests
[2020-11-10T17:51:01.084Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-11-10T17:51:04.466Z]  <gannan>    ... we called this a transaction
[2020-11-10T17:51:22.243Z]  <gannan>    ... the whole idea that you start something by connecting the client to the server
[2020-11-10T17:51:26.820Z]  <gannan>    ... and augmenting it over time
[2020-11-10T17:51:37.202Z]  <gannan>    ... is similar in concept to an UMA permission ticket
[2020-11-10T17:51:52.038Z]  <gannan>    ... as far as the ticket itself, there's less of analog in GNAP
[2020-11-10T17:52:05.772Z]  <gannan>    ... we have a way to start and continue this, it is more API driven
[2020-11-10T17:52:24.972Z]  <gannan>    ... one of the issues is that it's an API access token protected API to get more tokens
[2020-11-10T17:52:37.739Z]  <gannan>    ... you could make our Auth Server completely stateless and use JWTs
[2020-11-10T17:52:48.290Z]  <gannan>    ... you could use more stateful access
[2020-11-10T17:53:10.364Z]  <gannan>    ... GNAP is currently silent about any such things to allow for flexibility for different deployment patterns that we know people want to do
[2020-11-10T17:53:21.049Z]  <gannan>    wayne: any other questions? world class consulting?
[2020-11-10T17:53:39.407Z]  <gannan>    justin_r: I want to remind everyone that we have the co-editors on this call too
[2020-11-10T17:53:40.603Z]  <wayne> q+
[2020-11-10T17:53:46.734Z]  <wayne> ack wayne
[2020-11-10T17:54:19.576Z]  <gannan>    wayne: could you walk through the photo printer scenario on the mailing list?
[2020-11-10T17:54:35.619Z]  <gannan>    justin_r: this is a canoncial example...
[2020-11-10T17:54:46.992Z]  <gannan>    ... the photo printer can kick things off with more information
[2020-11-10T17:55:07.266Z]  <gannan>    ... it can describe what it wants "just image data" or "just image data in a specific folder"
[2020-11-10T17:55:20.552Z]  <gannan>    ... being able to describe this is similar to how the mechanics work in oauth
[2020-11-10T17:55:34.516Z]  <gannan>    ... the printer talks to the server
[2020-11-10T17:55:53.012Z]  <gannan>    ... the storage server turns around and says I understand what you're asking for
[2020-11-10T17:56:03.748Z]  <gannan>    ... the storage server says it needs the user to approve
[2020-11-10T17:56:11.290Z]  <gannan>    ... the user then approves
[2020-11-10T17:56:25.791Z]  <gannan>    ... this all gets wrapped in an access token
[2020-11-10T17:56:49.735Z]  <gannan>    ... the other main thing GNAP allows... is to step up and ask for more access rights
[2020-11-10T17:57:31.761Z]  <gannan>    ... the printer can ask for ask for more access and the storage server could grant that without intervention from the user
[2020-11-10T17:58:00.030Z]  <gannan>    wayne: this looks like we have more degrees of freedom. we see some adoption problems in SAML2
[2020-11-10T17:58:17.936Z]  <gannan>    justin_r: this issue with SAML and XAML is carrying the policies...
[2020-11-10T17:58:24.668Z]  <gannan>    ... this is incredibly difficult
[2020-11-10T17:59:08.710Z]  <gannan>    ... what oauth2 showed us was distilling this information in simple scopes was possible
[2020-11-10T17:59:20.374Z]  <dlongley>  q+ to ask about redirect/app/callback interaction extensibility
[2020-11-10T17:59:24.057Z]  <gannan>    ... we do not assume everyone has a policy engine
[2020-11-10T17:59:29.502Z]  <wayne> ack dlongley
[2020-11-10T17:59:34.689Z]  <gannan>    dlongley: thank you for the presentation
[2020-11-10T17:59:54.944Z]  <gannan>    ... we are working with technologies such as CHAPI and ZCAPs that can interface with GNAP
[2020-11-10T18:00:20.053Z]  <gannan>    ... how do we use GNAP to kick off negotiation processes?
[2020-11-10T18:00:52.264Z]  <gannan>    ... saw you had re-direction and app callback mechanisms. how extensible are they?
[2020-11-10T18:00:59.208Z]  <gannan>    justin_r: important question...
[2020-11-10T18:01:06.573Z]  <gannan>    ... this is the most important extensibility
[2020-11-10T18:01:12.540Z]  <gannan>    ... you are going in the right direction
[2020-11-10T18:01:26.577Z]  <gannan>    ... the client declares "I can facilitate CHAPI interactions"
[2020-11-10T18:01:52.775Z]  <gannan>    ... the authorization server sees that and says "this is how you do CHAPI to fulfill this"
[2020-11-10T18:02:16.690Z]  <gannan>    ... the question before the group is how to package those things
[2020-11-10T18:02:27.398Z]  <gannan>    ... in oauth2 we have a grant type
[2020-11-10T18:02:42.964Z]  <gannan>    ... in GNAP it's presented as here is a menu of things that I'm capable of
[2020-11-10T18:02:56.614Z]  <gannan>    ... whatever combination of those fit, that's what is picked
[2020-11-10T18:03:23.574Z]  <gannan>    ... GNAP is being driven to be a protocol for dynamism
[2020-11-10T18:03:35.057Z]  <gannan>    wayne: thank you Justin
[2020-11-10T18:03:52.485Z]  <gannan>    ... if you would like to participate, join the group
[2020-11-10T18:04:06.098Z]  <cel>   thanks
[2020-11-10T18:04:07.783Z]  <heathervescent>    Thanks Ganesh! And Justin!
[2020-11-10T18:04:21.166Z]  <justin_r>  Thanks Ganesh! I don't make scribing easy. :)
