Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Nis Jespersen  for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-04-11-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-04-11-traceability/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-04-11.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2024-04-11

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Apr&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Nis Jespersen 
Present:
  Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Russell H (mesur.io), Ted Thibodeau, TallTed 
  // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Nis Jespersen , Brent 
  Zundel, Patrick St-Louis

<mahmoud> can you hear me
<tallted> oh, this is now... I knew the new time wasn't on my 
  calendar!
<russell_h_(mesur.io)> I'm not hearing anyone, is that just me?
<mahmoud> i cant hear anyone eitehr
<nis> I hear Ted and Russell alright
<mahmoud> rejoining
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Nis Jespersen  is scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Welcome Brent
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/630
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  630 Till pending modifications. Pinging 
  Patrick
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/938
929 And 930 still in draft
938 Fails due to bad indentation
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/945
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> 
  EnvironmentalImpactCredential ?
Nis Jespersen :  Climate is more narrow than Environment
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Meant to be more generic, other pollutants 
  will be added
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thoughts on adding this credential to 
  product and/or event
Nis Jespersen :  Have others made similar data models
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I did look, didn't find anything simple like 
  this: this is what I measured
Self-certification-based
Nis Jespersen :  We usually model units separately
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I will look at other schemas for inspiration 
  and align
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Going through Interop issues
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc+label%3Av1.0
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/533
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/532
Nis Jespersen :  533 Is likely stale, I suggest we close and look 
  over the respec with fresh eyes and file new issues
Closing
Nis Jespersen :  532 Likely still relevant
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Keeping it
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/496
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  This was removed last week
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/draft/#presentations
Nis Jespersen :  Kill 496
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Disagreement to kill? Hearing none.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/604
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Do we still have DIDAuth references?
Nis Jespersen :  I didn't find any in the Respec today
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  There are some on the OAS still
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/529
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We don't really do VC API anymore. Interop 
  only.
You can do the rest however you want. That is a good place to be. 
  You can be VC API compliant however you want. We just expect 
  /presentations.
Nis Jespersen :  I agree completely
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So this session should articular what we 
  just said
Ted Thibodeau:  I don't disagree. "Between trust boundaries" best 
  describes our focus
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/482
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  453 Is now out of scope.
Nis Jespersen :  Agree, this should be closed as outdated.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Objections to closing?
Closing
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I suggest we narrow what this profile 
  supports.
For better interoperability
Make comments, we will decide next time
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/582
Nis Jespersen :  Tag as v1?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/582
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  582 Still stands
Ted Thibodeau:  Still relevant
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Leaving it alive. But not a high priority 
  issue
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/359
Ted Thibodeau:  Not high prio now,  going forward there will be 
  multiple implementations from the same vendors
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  359 Is now outdated
Nis Jespersen :  But we need an alternative
Patrick St-Louis:  The suggestion was to add two pre-issued JWTs, 
  a valid and a revoked, then test against those.
Nis, Mahmoud: great, thank you Patrick
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/506
Nis Jespersen :  We did this already.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/589
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/529
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Workflows are quite different from VC API
Patrick St-Louis:  We should encourage VC API
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That's separate issue, we discussed that 
  earlier
Patrick St-Louis:  Traceability introduced Workflows long ago, 
  and it isn't all spec'ed out in VC API. I see no issue here. We 
  can close.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/624
Nis Jespersen :  But the direction is to move away from 
  conformance altogether. Don't waste time on fixing it.
Patrick St-Louis:  Yes, agree
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/631
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So we can close issue 624 and PR 631
Patrick St-Louis:  Can we not remove before having the 
  alternative
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes we can change the spec test, but  hold 
  back removing conformance
Nis Jespersen :  But why, we all agree not to do Confirmance
Patrick St-Louis:  It's not to look at charts
Patrick St-Louis:  You still to have a way to show 
  interoperability
Just POST /presentations returning 200 doesn't do much
Patrick St-Louis:  On thinking more, we can take conformance out 
  of running
But we could keep the collection
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Let's not keep around what should be used
Patrick St-Louis:  Okay, I agree we can remove it
Patrick St-Louis:  These specs gave me clear direction on how to 
  build the server
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/636
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Pinging on the issue, see if they respond. 
  Other suggestions how to get in touch with the chairs?
Patrick St-Louis:  I can ping Will
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thank you, very productive meeting
