[2024-04-11T19:00:28.307Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2024-04-11T19:01:02.087Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2024-04-11T19:01:55.225Z]	<Mahmoud>	can you hear me
[2024-04-11T19:01:58.123Z]	<TallTed>	oh, this is now... I knew the new time wasn't on my calendar!
[2024-04-11T19:02:15.156Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-04-11T19:02:29.247Z]	<nis>	present+
[2024-04-11T19:02:31.860Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	I'm not hearing anyone, is that just me?
[2024-04-11T19:02:34.220Z]	<brent>	present+
[2024-04-11T19:02:36.291Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2024-04-11T19:02:51.604Z]	<Mahmoud>	i cant hear anyone eitehr
[2024-04-11T19:03:12.850Z]	<nis>	I hear Ted and Russell alright
[2024-04-11T19:03:18.956Z]	<Mahmoud>	rejoining
[2024-04-11T19:03:31.103Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2024-04-11T19:04:54.752Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-04-11T19:04:54.752Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-04-11T19:05:12.234Z]	<nis>	scribe+
[2024-04-11T19:05:36.916Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Welcome Brent
[2024-04-11T19:05:47.041Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/630
[2024-04-11T19:06:16.649Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: 630 till pending modifications. Pinging Patrick
[2024-04-11T19:06:19.407Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
[2024-04-11T19:06:50.563Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/938
[2024-04-11T19:06:53.702Z]	<nis>	929 and 930 still in draft
[2024-04-11T19:08:08.905Z]	<nis>	938 fails due to bad indentation
[2024-04-11T19:08:37.163Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/945
[2024-04-11T19:10:12.393Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	EnvironmentalImpactCredential ?
[2024-04-11T19:10:38.750Z]	<nis>	Nis: Climate is more narrow than Climate
[2024-04-11T19:11:01.006Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Meant to be more generic, other pollutants will be added
[2024-04-11T19:11:36.870Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	s/than Climate/than Environment/
[2024-04-11T19:12:40.250Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Thoughts on adding this credential to product and/or event
[2024-04-11T19:13:19.263Z]	<nis>	Nis: have others made similar data models
[2024-04-11T19:13:39.042Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I did look, didn't find anything simple like this: this is what I measured
[2024-04-11T19:13:53.927Z]	<nis>	Self-certification-based
[2024-04-11T19:15:16.717Z]	<nis>	Nis: we usually model units separately
[2024-04-11T19:16:05.079Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2024-04-11T19:16:11.711Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I will look at other schemas for inspiration and align
[2024-04-11T19:16:37.904Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: going through Interop issues
[2024-04-11T19:16:44.144Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc+label%3Av1.0
[2024-04-11T19:16:50.187Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/533
[2024-04-11T19:19:01.563Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/532
[2024-04-11T19:19:07.000Z]	<nis>	Nis: 533 is likely stale, I suggest we close and look over the respec with fresh eyes and file new issues
[2024-04-11T19:19:10.423Z]	<nis>	Closing
[2024-04-11T19:20:08.144Z]	<nis>	Nis: 532 likely still relevant
[2024-04-11T19:20:12.683Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: keeping it
[2024-04-11T19:20:27.890Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/496
[2024-04-11T19:21:08.020Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: this was removed last week
[2024-04-11T19:21:55.304Z]	<nis>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/draft/#presentations
[2024-04-11T19:22:39.698Z]	<nis>	Nis: kill 496
[2024-04-11T19:22:59.878Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: disagreement to kill? Hearing none.
[2024-04-11T19:24:13.306Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/604
[2024-04-11T19:25:43.403Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: do we still have DIDAuth references?
[2024-04-11T19:25:58.481Z]	<nis>	Nis: I didn't find any in the Respec today
[2024-04-11T19:26:08.026Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: There are some on the OAS still
[2024-04-11T19:26:15.656Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/529
[2024-04-11T19:27:00.403Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we don't really do VC API anymore. Interop only.
[2024-04-11T19:27:43.484Z]	<nis>	You can do the rest however you want. That is a good place to be. You can be VC API compliant however you want. We just expect /presentations.
[2024-04-11T19:27:56.873Z]	<nis>	Nis: I agree completely
[2024-04-11T19:28:17.318Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: so this session should articular what we just said
[2024-04-11T19:29:20.738Z]	<nis>	Ted: I don't disagree. "Between trust boundaries" best describes our focus
[2024-04-11T19:30:01.702Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/482
[2024-04-11T19:31:38.074Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2024-04-11T19:32:05.844Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: 453 is now out of scope.
[2024-04-11T19:32:22.696Z]	<nis>	Nis: agree, this should be closed as outdated.
[2024-04-11T19:32:32.346Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: objections to closing?
[2024-04-11T19:32:34.732Z]	<nis>	Closing
[2024-04-11T19:34:29.030Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
[2024-04-11T19:35:03.501Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I suggest we narrow what this profile supports.
[2024-04-11T19:36:16.312Z]	<nis>	For better interoperability
[2024-04-11T19:37:24.863Z]	<nis>	Make comments, we will decide next time
[2024-04-11T19:37:27.759Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/582
[2024-04-11T19:37:29.047Z]	<nis>	Nis: tag as v1?
[2024-04-11T19:37:34.729Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yes
[2024-04-11T19:38:01.303Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/582
[2024-04-11T19:38:55.519Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2024-04-11T19:39:10.002Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2024-04-11T19:39:20.719Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: 582 still stands
[2024-04-11T19:39:28.821Z]	<nis>	Ted: still relevant
[2024-04-11T19:39:48.914Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: leaving it alive. But not a high priority issue
[2024-04-11T19:40:13.941Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/359
[2024-04-11T19:40:25.428Z]	<nis>	Ted: not high prio now,  going forward there will be multiple implementations from the same vendors
[2024-04-11T19:41:24.334Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: 359 is now outdated
[2024-04-11T19:41:33.406Z]	<nis>	Nis: but we need an alternative
[2024-04-11T19:42:22.700Z]	<nis>	Patrick: the suggestion was to add two pre-issued JWTs, a valid and a revoked, then test against those.
[2024-04-11T19:42:55.596Z]	<nis>	Nis, Mahmoud: great, thank you Patrick
[2024-04-11T19:43:27.877Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/506
[2024-04-11T19:44:04.983Z]	<nis>	Nis: we did this already.
[2024-04-11T19:44:18.256Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/589
[2024-04-11T19:45:19.487Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/529
[2024-04-11T19:45:30.533Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: workflows are quite different from VC API
[2024-04-11T19:45:53.460Z]	<nis>	Patrick: we should encourage VC API
[2024-04-11T19:46:11.523Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: that's separate issue, we discussed that earlier
[2024-04-11T19:47:08.842Z]	<nis>	Patrick: Traceability introduced Workflows long ago, and it isn't all spec'ed out in VC API. I see no issue here. We can close.
[2024-04-11T19:47:26.226Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/624
[2024-04-11T19:49:10.214Z]	<nis>	Nis: but the direction is to move away from conformance altogether. Don't waste time on fixing it.
[2024-04-11T19:49:18.122Z]	<nis>	Patrick: yes, agree
[2024-04-11T19:49:19.311Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/631
[2024-04-11T19:49:48.240Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: so we can close issue 624 and PR 631
[2024-04-11T19:52:10.009Z]	<nis>	Patrick: can we not remove before having the alternative
[2024-04-11T19:53:17.918Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yes we can change the spec test, but  hold back removing conformance
[2024-04-11T19:53:43.602Z]	<nis>	Nis: but why, we all agree not to do Confirmance
[2024-04-11T19:54:03.323Z]	<nis>	Patrick: It's not to look at charts
[2024-04-11T19:54:21.731Z]	<nis>	Patrick: you still to have a way to show interoperability
[2024-04-11T19:54:43.534Z]	<nis>	Just POST /presentations returning 200 doesn't do much
[2024-04-11T19:55:12.442Z]	<nis>	Patrick: On thinking more, we can take conformance out of running
[2024-04-11T19:55:27.189Z]	<nis>	But we could keep the collection
[2024-04-11T19:55:56.613Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: let's not keep around what should be used
[2024-04-11T19:56:24.538Z]	<nis>	Patrick: okay, I agree we can remove it
[2024-04-11T19:57:58.895Z]	<nis>	Patrick: these specs gave me clear direction on how to build the server
[2024-04-11T19:58:03.802Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/636
[2024-04-11T19:58:48.307Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: pinging on the issue, see if they respond. Other suggestions how to get in touch with the chairs?
[2024-04-11T19:58:55.397Z]	<nis>	Patrick: I can ping Will
[2024-04-11T19:59:31.509Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: thank you, very productive meeting
[2024-04-11T20:00:15.535Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
