[2020-09-15T16:05:08.087Z]	<manu>	present+
[2020-09-15T16:05:08.087Z]	<manu>	scribe: manu
[2020-09-15T16:05:08.087Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: These notes/minutes -- audio recording archived, this is the first time we're using Jitsi - we're using a new autorecording system - still nwill need a scribe.
[2020-09-15T16:05:09.761Z]	<Robbie.Jones@ForgeRock.com>	present+
[2020-09-15T16:05:36.898Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: We will be using chat , please q+ w/ Chairs monitoring the queue.
[2020-09-15T16:05:47.321Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: If you're just on audio - just say that you'd like to speak.
[2020-09-15T16:05:54.902Z]	<Phil>	Present+
[2020-09-15T16:06:03.354Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-09-15T16:06:07.450Z]	<markus_sabadello>	present+
[2020-09-15T16:06:11.437Z]	<manu>	scribe: by_caballero
[2020-09-15T16:06:34.316Z]	<by_caballero>	Can I scribe into Jitsi chat or need i do it in IRC?
[2020-09-15T16:06:40.385Z]	<Heather>	present+
[2020-09-15T16:06:52.666Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	you can scribe either place by_caballero
[2020-09-15T16:06:54.589Z]	<by_caballero>	Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2020-09-15T16:07:16.378Z]	<Kim>	present+
[2020-09-15T16:08:24.922Z]	<by_caballero>	manu: Hi, I'm Manu Sporny a Founder and CEO of Digital Bazaar - been in this community since the beginning, spend a lot of time developing specifications - JSON-LD, Verifiable Credentials, Decentralized Identifiers, we've grown quite a lot over the years, looking forward to continuing to work with the fine people in this community.
[2020-09-15T16:08:35.322Z]	<by_caballero>	hakan_yildiz
[2020-09-15T16:08:47.449Z]	<by_caballero>	ack hakan_yildiz
[2020-09-15T16:08:55.246Z]	<Kim>	present+ Hakan_Yildiz_(TU_Berlin)
[2020-09-15T16:09:27.256Z]	<by_caballero>	ack hakan
[2020-09-15T16:09:48.374Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2020-09-15T16:09:57.754Z]	<by_caballero>	hakan: Technische UniversitÃ¤t Berlin working on BMWi Schaufenster Sichere Digitale IdentitÃ¤t
[2020-09-15T16:10:06.315Z]	<IdentityWoman>	present+
[2020-09-15T16:10:15.287Z]	<mprorock_mesur_io>	q+
[2020-09-15T16:10:23.160Z]	<by_caballero>	(in SSI fÃ¼r Deutschland consortium spinning up an Indy ledger of the same name!)
[2020-09-15T16:11:06.051Z]	<by_caballero>	mprorock_mesur_io: Mesur works primarily in agri and environmental analytics, which involves lots of SSI and blockchain for tracking and verifiable supply chain work
[2020-09-15T16:11:06.051Z]	<by_caballero>	Mesur works primarily in agri and environmental analytics, which involves lots of SSI and blockchain for tracking and verifiable supply chain work
[2020-09-15T16:11:36.016Z]	<by_caballero>	Topic: Announcements and Reminders
[2020-09-15T16:11:42.195Z]	<by_caballero>	Kaliya: IIW oct 20-22, earlybird are over
[2020-09-15T16:11:52.986Z]	<by_caballero>	Wayne: tavern vibes promised
[2020-09-15T16:12:13.557Z]	<by_caballero>	scribe: will be online on Qiqochat again
[2020-09-15T16:12:35.986Z]	<jonathan_holt>	present+ jonathan_holt
[2020-09-15T16:12:58.344Z]	<manu>	dlongley: yes
[2020-09-15T16:13:07.121Z]	<by_caballero>	Wayne: sidebar on jitsi: we can move forward on APAC prerogatives to get CCG partic from
[2020-09-15T16:13:26.492Z]	<Heather>	A++
[2020-09-15T16:13:35.536Z]	<by_caballero>	regions limited by nation-state firewalls great and small as well as timezone issues
[2020-09-15T16:13:37.025Z]	<Kim>	manu - it looks like the wrap-up tasks are happening. I'm not sure if we'll end up with a bunch of little recordings. But I'll trust your knowledge of the behind-the-scenes magick
[2020-09-15T16:13:53.151Z]	<Kim>	thanks Manu! and Wayne for pushing it over the finish line!
[2020-09-15T16:13:49.460Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Happy to contribute to the community :)
[2020-09-15T16:13:59.603Z]	<by_caballero>	other announcements?
[2020-09-15T16:14:10.104Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1 to the Chairs and Wayne for his technical contributions.
[2020-09-15T16:14:12.661Z]	<by_caballero>	*waits half a nathan*
[2020-09-15T16:14:28.499Z]	<wayne>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-09-15T16:14:30.754Z]	<by_caballero>	Topic: Progress and Action Items
[2020-09-15T16:15:57.934Z]	<by_caballero>	chairs: orie has been working lots of work behind the scenes to find and fill gaps in security suites
[2020-09-15T16:16:20.614Z]	<by_caballero>	this work item is a spec that catches up to undocumented work that has been implemented since last documentation of LD sig suites
[2020-09-15T16:17:08.111Z]	<by_caballero>	this is a dependency that prepares other items to move to standardization
[2020-09-15T16:17:19.995Z]	<by_caballero>	such as LD-Proofs and other widgets for LD implementations
[2020-09-15T16:17:49.447Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2020-09-15T16:17:52.541Z]	<by_caballero>	wayne: Ed25519 is a curve that is explicitly recognized by many federal/govt allow-lists, incl NIST reports
[2020-09-15T16:18:00.156Z]	<Kim>	q+
[2020-09-15T16:18:04.548Z]	<by_caballero>	for those not familiar with choice of curves
[2020-09-15T16:19:05.531Z]	<by_caballero>	heather: blog post on CCG page on W3C page
[2020-09-15T16:19:06.737Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2020-09-15T16:19:09.823Z]	<HeatherVescent>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/2020/09/10/whats-in-a-wallet-the-recap/
[2020-09-15T16:21:39.905Z]	<by_caballero>	kim: wanted to hear from orie abotu ed22519 and other LD specs
[2020-09-15T16:21:40.874Z]	<Orie>	q+ to respond
[2020-09-15T16:21:41.314Z]	<drummond>	present+
[2020-09-15T16:21:47.001Z]	<by_caballero>	ack orie
[2020-09-15T16:21:55.988Z]	<manu>	q+ agropper
[2020-09-15T16:22:31.633Z]	<by_caballero>	orie: other suites use the curve-- used in json wed sig 2020 LD Sig suite, as well as a few others (JCS, etc)
[2020-09-15T16:23:13.080Z]	<manu>	q+ agropper
[2020-09-15T16:23:13.377Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	sorry for the SIP/publishing noise, that's from the detached legacy system. we will redress this by the next meeting
[2020-09-15T16:23:14.745Z]	<Kim>	thanks Orie, this is helpful
[2020-09-15T16:23:16.972Z]	<by_caballero>	main diff is that the new one removes any external signature-packing mechanism (no JWS verbosity, just raw signature); also support binary reps that are more contemporary (multicodec and multiformat)
[2020-09-15T16:23:18.777Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q+
[2020-09-15T16:24:03.714Z]	<by_caballero>	having it be bare makes it more flexible and supports IPLD and other stuff (as opposed to facilitating vanilla JOSE like the old one)
[2020-09-15T16:25:03.562Z]	<by_caballero>	adrian: question about wallet comparison-- where is the consensus?
[2020-09-15T16:25:04.677Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2020-09-15T16:25:18.530Z]	<by_caballero>	adrian: the thread doesn't help me see majorities or consensus or alignment...
[2020-09-15T16:25:58.220Z]	<by_caballero>	heather: to answer adrian, i think it's a fool's errand to create consensus among these views on wallets
[2020-09-15T16:26:07.617Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1 to what Heather said -- it'll be very difficult to get to consensus there.
[2020-09-15T16:26:50.114Z]	<by_caballero>	heather: maybe better approach is document diversity for now
[2020-09-15T16:27:10.845Z]	<by_caballero>	adrian: are you inviting op-eds to be contributed to this repo?
[2020-09-15T16:27:17.343Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1 to contribute as an opinion piece, etc.
[2020-09-15T16:27:31.059Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	too early to try to say "A wallet is X and Y, full stop."
[2020-09-15T16:28:11.081Z]	<by_caballero>	wayne: take it to the github thread!
[2020-09-15T16:28:19.221Z]	<by_caballero>	a repo is not out of the question for this item
[2020-09-15T16:28:21.499Z]	<by_caballero>	ack jonathan
[2020-09-15T16:28:36.412Z]	<by_caballero>	jonathan: I want to applaud Orie's key formats work
[2020-09-15T16:29:05.591Z]	<by_caballero>	I am apparently a futurist for my commitment to and work towards future multiformat signature work... but i'm confused by what's happening in DID-core
[2020-09-15T16:29:31.498Z]	<by_caballero>	*waits half a nathan*
[2020-09-15T16:29:48.913Z]	<by_caballero>	manu: reminder to scribe to write names of speakers, not just ack them
[2020-09-15T16:30:03.106Z]	<by_caballero>	/me is happy to edit the log post facto (post-facto regrets)
[2020-09-15T16:30:30.628Z]	<by_caballero>	wayne: coming back to APAC, this may become an official work item
[2020-09-15T16:30:53.655Z]	<by_caballero>	if it brings a more global group to discuss these ostensibly global standards
[2020-09-15T16:31:22.422Z]	<manu>	Topic: DHS SVIP Lessons Learned
[2020-09-15T16:31:36.954Z]	<HeatherVescent>	Great to have our first video presentation at the CCG!
[2020-09-15T16:41:16.600Z]	<by_caballero>	anil: trust framework solutions program
[2020-09-15T16:41:52.264Z]	<by_caballero>	that aims to set level across all govt procurements of identity services
[2020-09-15T16:42:10.977Z]	<by_caballero>	social security numbers (SSNs) have been a thorn in the side of identity technologists for a long time
[2020-09-15T16:42:35.115Z]	<by_caballero>	identifier/authenticator double-duty were responsible for a whole slew of problems
[2020-09-15T16:42:48.608Z]	<by_caballero>	another data point was that data point bundling was a persistent problem
[2020-09-15T16:43:17.811Z]	<by_caballero>	attribution aggregations (pulled from diverse sources) and delivering them to a consumer in a uniform way was surprisingly hard in SAML land
[2020-09-15T16:43:31.000Z]	<by_caballero>	third data point was the phone home problem
[2020-09-15T16:44:12.376Z]	<by_caballero>	this program also put me in touch with lots of people trying to sell services and tech to the govt
[2020-09-15T16:44:39.795Z]	<by_caballero>	one noteworthy incident was the introduction of a conformance test suite (based on a new SAML-profile)
[2020-09-15T16:45:09.280Z]	<by_caballero>	the vendors put up a lot of resistance to this additional commitment
[2020-09-15T16:45:55.961Z]	<by_caballero>	after 3 years of working there, i chose not to reissue my position there;  after a few months off, Doug Mahn (sp?) pulled me into DHS S&T directorate
[2020-09-15T16:46:08.740Z]	<by_caballero>	this was during the salad days of blockchains
[2020-09-15T16:46:47.903Z]	<by_caballero>	i put into place a lot of R&D projects to better understand the interoperability and objective benchmarking parameters of that space
[2020-09-15T16:47:28.813Z]	<drummond>	What were we thinking??? :-)
[2020-09-15T16:47:30.624Z]	<by_caballero>	early on, i got pitched by a motley crew: Manu Sporny, Drummond Reed, Christopher Allen -- they wanted to do some R&D work on these decentralized identifier things
[2020-09-15T16:47:57.492Z]	<TimBouma_>	Contracts just awarded for a similar challenge in Canada https://github.com/canada-ca/ucvdcc
[2020-09-15T16:48:09.999Z]	<by_caballero>	R&D work was focused (as was VC work after it) on phone-home problem, attribution-aggregation problem, etc
[2020-09-15T16:48:21.687Z]	<drummond>	Contrats, Tim!
[2020-09-15T16:48:31.799Z]	<by_caballero>	DHS S&T directorate has two key functions: science advisor to DHS and R&D arm for the agency
[2020-09-15T16:48:42.792Z]	<TimBouma_>	Vendors and use cases here: https://github.com/canada-ca/ucvdcc/blob/master/use-cases.md
[2020-09-15T16:49:03.010Z]	<by_caballero>	DHS has historically been more operational than R&D, but S&T has been growing that R&D role
[2020-09-15T16:49:45.960Z]	<by_caballero>	SVIP is more of an R&D funding vehicle focused on reverse pitches
[2020-09-15T16:50:13.286Z]	<by_caballero>	and matchmaking DHS problems with young markets, hoping to be one customer among many rather than leading companies to "pivot to govt"
[2020-09-15T16:50:26.033Z]	<by_caballero>	DHS wants to be an early customer of emerging, innovative tech
[2020-09-15T16:50:56.767Z]	<by_caballero>	we want to be the opposite of supporting autumn tail of established tech
[2020-09-15T16:51:10.780Z]	<by_caballero>	we support work in various buckets these days
[2020-09-15T16:51:42.797Z]	<by_caballero>	customs (in CBP) represents one of the largest, maybe the largest, customs agency on earth.  how can new technology give insight and assurance to that staggering volume of imports
[2020-09-15T16:52:14.401Z]	<by_caballero>	paper-based credentials are still operational in many processes in federal govt, and these are very susceptible to counterfeiting and fraud
[2020-09-15T16:53:01.137Z]	<by_caballero>	the use cases we have been focusing recent tenders on are public:  we are dealing with vairous kinds of imports (steel, energy), and for documentation process upgrades (permanent residence cards)
[2020-09-15T16:53:06.461Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q+ when we accepting questions
[2020-09-15T16:53:23.625Z]	<by_caballero>	our mantra has always been and will always be: "there shall not be one ring to rule them all"
[2020-09-15T16:53:41.424Z]	<by_caballero>	we structure our solicitations around demonstrable (not self-attested) interoperability
[2020-09-15T16:53:56.168Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2020-09-15T16:54:10.961Z]	<by_caballero>	demonstrated in live interop demos and/or compliance suites co-developed by portfolio companies and hosted by SVIP
[2020-09-15T16:54:26.154Z]	<by_caballero>	JSON-LD support is critical to this interoperability profile
[2020-09-15T16:54:32.471Z]	<by_caballero>	breaking for Q&A
[2020-09-15T16:54:33.482Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-examples/tree/master/plugfest-2020 -> needs to move to -> https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api
[2020-09-15T16:54:38.294Z]	<by_caballero>	ack jonathan_holt
[2020-09-15T16:55:14.196Z]	<by_caballero>	jonathan_holt: horizontal security review
[2020-09-15T16:55:23.019Z]	<by_caballero>	along with some others on this call
[2020-09-15T16:55:39.436Z]	<by_caballero>	and i had questions about the possibility of throwing a "red team" at the whole spec
[2020-09-15T16:55:48.730Z]	<by_caballero>	rather than individual implementations on a case by case basis?
[2020-09-15T16:55:59.629Z]	<by_caballero>	anil: I have to think about it, before giving a definitive answer
[2020-09-15T16:56:25.093Z]	<by_caballero>	the more nuanced answer is that we structure the program in 4 phases-- phase 2 is full capabilities, phase 3 is red team
[2020-09-15T16:56:37.328Z]	<by_caballero>	but you bring up an important lacuna in the contemporary ecosystem
[2020-09-15T16:56:59.262Z]	<by_caballero>	we want to have some objective criteria for judging, ranking, or rating wallets and did methods
[2020-09-15T16:57:21.476Z]	<by_caballero>	we are taking a brute-force approach in the meantime (red teaming each company's work)
[2020-09-15T16:57:53.547Z]	<by_caballero>	but we hope the results of the upcoming phase 3 red-teams can inform an ecosystem-wide, reusable specification like the kind you mention
[2020-09-15T16:58:07.972Z]	<by_caballero>	(in the absence of momentum and independent orgs arising organically in the meantime)
[2020-09-15T16:58:31.301Z]	<by_caballero>	kim: you've seen the development of the decentralized id scene since the beginning
[2020-09-15T16:58:55.541Z]	<by_caballero>	do you have any insight, counterfactuals you expected to be by now, or counterintuitive conclusions to share with us?
[2020-09-15T16:59:04.804Z]	<by_caballero>	anil: i won't belabor the absence of objective testing mechanisms
[2020-09-15T16:59:23.203Z]	<by_caballero>	the other surprise is how little UX work can be seen in the market
[2020-09-15T16:59:32.236Z]	<Orie>	+1 to better tests AND better test vectors.... standardization around test fixtures is a prerequisite for good tests.
[2020-09-15T16:59:45.512Z]	<by_caballero>	and the third piece i see
[2020-09-15T17:00:00.498Z]	<by_caballero>	is substantial community participation
[2020-09-15T17:00:23.611Z]	<by_caballero>	and development of independent test suites
[2020-09-15T17:00:42.248Z]	<Orie>	Thank you Anil!
