Thanks to Manu Sporny for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-06-22 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2021-06-22

Agenda:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/scribe-tool/
Topics:
  1. Introductions and Reintroductions
  2. Announcements and Reminders
  3. Action Items
  4. No Agenda, Agenda
Organizer:
  Wayne Chang and Heather Vescent
Scribe:
  Manu Sporny
Present:
  Charles E._Lehner_[cel], Heather Vescent, Leo, Mike Prorock, Manu 
  Sporny, Jeff Stephens, Steve Gance, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Wayne 
  Chang, Ryan Grant, Adrian Hope-Bailie, Chris Winczewski, TallTed 
  //_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com), Jeff Orgel, Erica 
  Connell, David I. Lehn, Julien Fraichot, Adrian Gropper, Dmitri 
  Z, Orie Steele, Brian Richter, Kaliya Young, Ted Thibodeau, 
  FNe0c4e4a15cff9f2c1ef31f22634e05b8, Kim Hamilton Duffy, Charles 
  E. Lehner, Kayode Ezike
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-06-22/audio.ogg

Manu Sporny is scribing.
Heather Vescent:  Welcome to the call today - as all of you know, 
  I love planning and Agendas and we're doing something different 
  today. Agenda-less call, challenge given by Anil. It's out of my 
  comfort zone, but good to step out of comfort zones.
Heather Vescent:  We will have a planned call next week, don't 
  worry. :)
Heather Vescent:  There are interesting ideas in this community, 
  not everyone wants to step up and be on the hook... lower 
  barriers to participation, just see what bubbles up from the 
  community.
Heather Vescent:  That is the UN-agenda for today. We'll go 
  through standard stuff and regular business before jumping in to 
  no Agenda.
<heather_vescent> Join: 
  https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
Heather goes over IP Note - you must be CCG member to provide 
  technical input. You don't need to be a paid member. You do need 
  to have a W3C account.
<heather_vescent> Minutes: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
Heather Vescent:  If you would like to say something, type q+ to 
  add yourself to the queue.
Heather Vescent:  Please be brief so others can chime in -- but 
  today, be as long-winded as you want. It's unstructured. Meeting 
  held by voice, not IRC, be on topic.

Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions

<heather_vescent> Introduction List: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit#heading=h.ngyk8y939osi
Heather Vescent:  Anyone new that would like to introduce 
  themselves?
Steve_Gance: I'm in Olympia, Washington, working with Concentric 
  Sky on badging, more interested in Verifiable Credential stuff -- 
  new, listening in, lots of homework to do, listening in, thank 
  you.
Heather Vescent:  Please feel free to reach out to me directly or 
  CCG 101 group to answer specific questions you might have.
Heather Vescent:  I'm trying to shepherd and help create 
  materials to understand community and how it works so you can 
  contribute. Just shoot me an email or join CCG 101 calls.
Steve_Gance: Great, thank you.
Heather Vescent:  Any reintroductions?
<econnell> next time- my mic is glitchy!
Adrian Gropper:  Hi Adrian Gropper, I have a dual role -- CTO of 
  non-profit for Patient Privacy Rights, volunteer there, tiny 
  operation. I also lead an implementation project of the standards 
  in the SSI community as well as authorization-related standards 
  all around healthcare use cases, which I authored for Verifiable 
  Credentials in form of a prescription.
Adrian Gropper:  In W3C invited expert on Privacy, trying to 
  promote interest of consumer here.

Topic: Announcements and Reminders

<heather_vescent> Announcements: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
<heather_vescent> scribe+
Manu Sporny:  Announcement for the DID WG, the DID core 
  recommendation is in the second candidate recommendation, until 
  mid-July. There were two features that are not getting 
  implemented. A minor nuance in the W3C process, but necessary to 
  be specific and clear. Doing another revision. We are still 
  taking implementations - and have gotten a couple (universal 
  resolver). There is still time to submit an implementation 
  report. We have 20-30 implementations, so this is really good 
  feedback. If all goes well, we will proceed, and vote and ratify 
  as a global standard.
DID Core 2nd Candidate Recommendation is here: 
  https://www.w3.org/TR/2021/CRD-did-core-20210616/
Heather Vescent:  Any other announcements/reminders?
<heather_vescent> Progress on Action Items: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22

Topic: Action Items

Heather Vescent:  Update on Infrastructure Task Force?
<heather_vescent> IFT Update: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/197
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/197
Wayne Chang:  Not too many updates recently, seems to have 
  stabilized, APAC call waiting on 3rd co-chair to do that, 
  grateful to manu for providing further updates to infrastructure, 
  thankful to heather for updates on how to scribe.
Heather Vescent:  Are you having any other meetings?
<heather_vescent> Open co-chair role: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/196
Wayne Chang:  No meetings scheduled, might be a good idea to have 
  meetings every month or two.
Heather Vescent:  We need another co-chair, it's a lot of work 
  for two people -- we need to solve this in some way.
Heather Vescent:  The way we've done this in the past is by 
  having a 3rd co-chair - one challenge we've had at this time 
  about the role -- people interested, for various reasons, folks 
  have decided not to take the stage -- lots of stuff going on -- 
  packged calendar.
Heather Vescent:  There are 4 W3C CCG calls on my calendar!
Heather Vescent:  Also confidential storage, and VC EDU -- we are 
  doing a LOT of work in the CCG -- not only happening in this main 
  meeting... wanted to query the community on how we could solve 
  this. Should we cut down number of main CCG meetings?
Heather Vescent:  We might want to ask other meeting runners to 
  come into rotation on weekly call -- current state of co-chairs 
  is not sustainable and if we do not have a solution to it soon, 
  you might end up with no co-chairs.
Heather Vescent:  Not a threat, different co-chairs prioritize 
  the work at different levels -- we are doing a lot of work in 
  community -- we'd like work in community to be supported done.
<orie> sounds like expectations should be changed regarding what 
  chairs are responsible for doing.
<heather_vescent> Orie q+
Manu Sporny:  We need to make this sustainable, perhaps we should 
  lean on others already running meetings.
Orie Steele:  I think you said you were joining all calls... 
  that's a lot to ask chairs... not sustainable.
Orie Steele:  Not just Chairs volunteering, people running calls 
  -- generally speaking, in order for this community to be 
  effective, we need to work async in a way that's effective. Call 
  time should be focused on resolving disputes that are not being 
  resolved async.
Orie Steele:  My understanding of Chairs is process manager but 
  not significant work item contributor... I cannot imagine Chairs 
  being able to be aware fully of all work items... it's a lot to 
  ask.
Manu Sporny:  If there is a perception that chairs are involved 
  in everything, that's not sustainable.
Heather Vescent:  I don't attend all meetings, I attend them 
  sometimes and do CCG 101 -- I do disagree that Chairs need to 
  know work items going on, but that can happen async.
Heather Vescent:  The point with six CCG calls, lot more work 
  happening on work item, pool of work and people in leadership 
  roles are spread across six meetings instead of 1-2.
Heather Vescent:  Any other comments on this topic?
Jeff Stephens:  Just as an example, not directly related to how 
  it's done here -- biometric standards bodies -- they have 
  subcommittees, they have chairs on sub-groups as well...
Jeff Stephens:  Don't know if you can set up a hierarchical 
  structure for this group, something to think about.
Heather Vescent:  That's an interesting idea, haven't had 
  hierarchy in the past, how would community like to do that?
Manu Sporny:  +1 To roll up to the CCG chairs
Ted Thibodeau:  I am the crazy person who is trying to attend 
  every call of every group in which I have a vested interest -- 
  there is some need for some level of hierarchy here -- inherent 
  in work items being subtasks of CCG -- there is a hierarchy 
  there.
Ted Thibodeau:  Not all calls need to be attended by CCG Chairs 
  -- need to be aware if work items are going to reach conflict 
  level -- if split group should be multiples or single.
<orie> DIF has staff I think.
Wayne_Chang: It is getting to be a lot of workload, lots of work 
  items, even if we had 3rd co-chair, would it be enough? Work 
  items accountable? I keep thinking if it's possible to have more 
  dedicated resource on behalf of CG, then we need budget, 
  responsibilities, governance, CCG need it's own entity? Having a 
  pair of hands that could help, paid obligation, explicit support 
  of W3C staff, show up to meetings, notes, recordings... that's 
  been hinging on
The Chairs, as we have more work items, more meetings, task 
  forces, might be easier for someone good at this to work on this 
  like W3C staff.
<orie> does OIDF / TOIP / IETF have staff?
Manu Sporny:  That sounds fine (staff), the second we talk about 
  staff, it's money and a bunch of meta problems and we stop 
  working on the technical work, and now we have management of a 
  psuedo standards group.
<heather_vescent> ... maybe we shouldn't do as good of a job as 
  we are right now. Maybe everyone should take a step back and see 
  if things fall over.
<heather_vescent> ... some things we can't slip, we need minutes 
  and notes, this is a fundamental protection for the community.
<wayne_chang> TOIP has staff
<heather_vescent> ... but coordinating things, takes a lot of 
  work and is largely unseen.
<wayne_chang> IETF has.....people whose employer allows it to be 
  part of their job
Mike Prorock:  What is your typical weekly workload for Chairs?
Mike Prorock:  Maybe focused Chair roles?
Mike Prorock:  Can we group by function rather than group?
Mrporock: That might get more interest -- functional?
Heather Vescent:  Wayne, want to provide how much work you do?
Wayne_Chang: Work is anywhere from 2-6 hours a week, a lot of it 
  is reading... would spend more time... if I had more time would 
  spend more time on speakers, want to ask community on speakers, 
  last few weeks 2-4 hours.
Heather Vescent:  I don't spend much that time -- in order to put 
  agenda together, do minutes, follow up in Task Force -- 2-3 hours 
  per week. Cochair leaderhsip meeting haven't been happening since 
  March -- no long term planning, strategic planning, ensuring 
  anyone doing minutes.
<orie> yikes, if we are going to turn this call into a slander 
  session.
Heather Vescent:  I don't mean to be combative, but Wayne, hard 
  to understand how you put in that time.
<orie> I don't see this call doing anything useful for us.
Wayne_Chang: No need to call out people on a call, happy to 
  discuss in a separate call.
<mprorock> If you can locate that responsibility/role doc that 
  would be awesome
Heather Vescent:  If you manage your time, and we are efficient 
  about things, you attend some meetings -- 2-3 hours includes 
  running this meeting -- CCG101 call -- I don't know if that 
  answers your question Mike.
Mike Prorock:  If you find that doc, I'm happy to share with 
  folks with interest in the space.
<heather_vescent> CCG Job Description: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/18uPGjBw15i9jLRQ5K4SCwrrGU6zBIB3PpIap17X39fo/edit
Heather Vescent:  The doc is in IRC -- in preparation for open 
  co-chair role.
Heather Vescent:  Publishing minutes used to take a long time, 
  now easier than to Kim/Manu, have documented a lot of stuff.
Heather Vescent:  Easier to understand how things are done now... 
  we should do mentoring and leadership succession planning -- need 
  to be successful co-chair, manageable time... happy to mentor 
  someone if they want to come in. Wayne and I had discussed that 
  one year co-chair could be good. Any questions or comments?
Heather Vescent:  Any other questions/comments about the issue?
Ryan Grant:  Heather, wanted to thank you especially for minutes 
  training. I can help out on minutes occaisionally, this is a much 
  smaller responsibility / work item than being a co-chair in 
  general sense. The thought came to me, are there other delegation 
  on specific items that people can volunteer for? Volunteer queue.
Ryan Grant:  Even though we're considering another co-chair, it 
  would also make the co-chairs lives easier.
Mike Prorock: +1 Rgrant - i think that is a great idea
Heather Vescent:  Yeah, I think that's definitely one of the 
  things we wanted to do -- there is management process time there, 
  getting people to easily volunteer -- hidden goals of CCG101 is 
  to make it easy for folks to communicate and make people part of 
  CCG in low-stakes area.
Heather Vescent:  Get feet wet with community -- if someone wants 
  to do that, I'm willing to help with that.
Heather Vescent:  There needs to be heavy lifting from folks 
  other than chairs to jump start that.
Heather Vescent:  There are more things we want to do -- 
  diversity reviews of work items.
Heather Vescent:  Any final comments for today? If not, we can 
  move forward.
Heather Vescent:  Thank you for having that conversation, this 
  community is not afraid of conflict, not worried.

Topic: No Agenda, Agenda

<rgrant> /me tests emotes from jitsi
Heather Vescent:  The purpose here is for open space -- 
  interesting things that are happening? Is there something that's 
  annoyed you recently.
Heather Vescent:  California VCs? Something interesting/exciting 
  that has inspired you?
Mike Prorock:  Yeah, had an interesting experience yesterday, 
  demonstrating for government agency -- and when you look at 
  regulatory items, there is a comfort level with pen/paper that 
  makes it slow to move away from.
Mike Prorock:  We're dealing with agriculture, food safety... 
  doing track and trace for food recall -- the question came up -- 
  how do we know that this data is ok? What was entered is what was 
  presented?
Mike Prorock:  VC data model on VC we just issued -- a light bulb 
  went off for the audience for people that have traditionally been 
  paper-based... good feedback moment for work we're doing... they 
  said: "I got it, see proof beside data, can call different 
  systems to say this data is fine"
Mike Prorock:  It was cool to me, used to working more to people 
  speaking same langauge... but this one hadn't seen a VC before, 
  but they got it right away, other solution on market for digital 
  signage didn't have same security constraints under the hood.
Mike Prorock:  Really well received, when we talk about moving 
  off of paper, over to digital, confidence is important.
Heather Vescent:  Very cool, Mike.
<mprorock> and crickets
Manu Sporny:  Wanted to ask, would love to hear from the 
  community, where are we going? What should our next focus be?
<heather_vescent> ... we have six different groups, all of them 
  are helpful, but if we had to converge on a big topic, what would 
  it be?
Kaliya Young:  Q+ mprorock
<dmitri_z> authorization :)
Kaliya Young:  Fighting QR Codes ... I think that sharing digital 
  encodec information about people is incredibly dangerous and 
  worrying. I think the concerns that BC government need to be 
  taken seriously.
Kaliya Young:  We need to figure out how to explain the 
  difference between VCs and VPs and what is being unfolded right 
  now with covid vaccine certs.
Heather Vescent:  How can the community support that?
<cel> is there a link to concerns of BC folks mentioned by 
  identitywoman?
Kaliya Young:  I'm trying to take material that was drafted by BC 
  folks, shape it into a whitepaper, it may even be coming out with 
  some sort of statement. People can't understand the differences, 
  it's all just "digitally signed stuff, isn't it just the same?"
Heather Vescent:  So you mean, a statement from the CCG?
Kaliya Young:  Potentially... this is one of the significant 
  bodies working on this technology.
Heather Vescent:  Let's see what people say -- work item to 
  track, interesting idea.
Mike Prorock:  Thanks for that Kaliya, that whole issue, 
  digitally signed info, what's the difference is a big one... we 
  have to find a way to communicate effectively on route we'd like 
  to take. QR Codes used to display VCs, difference in how FHIR 
  Smart HealthCards are doing things.
Mike Prorock:  We need to speak clearly about those differences, 
  but recognize that this stuff is out in the world... how can we 
  help move this stuff toward a better privacy option.
Mike Prorock:  Appreciate you bringing that to light, Kaliya.
<identitywoman> that is what i'm talking about.
Ted Thibodeau:  I think that fighting to never use QRCodes is a 
  battle that is already long lost -- took a decade to hit in the 
  western hemisphere, they're useful when used appropriately -- use 
  them appropriately. Only put in public information, information 
  that is encrypted, that sort of thing.
Ted Thibodeau:  They can be used on vaxcerts to point to other 
  information, but should not include anything in bold face on QR 
  Code package -- just by scanning QR Code, decode, people will be 
  happy vs. street address and phone number.
Adrian Gropper:  I've studied the relationship to VCs and DIDs in 
  relation to health records as long as VCs and DIDs... I don't 
  understand the problem with QRCodes, there can be problems, we 
  need to be careful not ascribing privacy interest for 
  convenience.
Adrian Gropper:  If we don't have communities of employers, 
  patients, representing themselves, instead represented by 
  proxies, it's easy to confuse people about digital standards 
  because of that -- the context is so important
Manu Sporny:  +1 To what Adrian is saying.
Manu Sporny:  Reflect on the QR thing, Kaliya's intent is the 
  data in the QR code, not the QR code itself. The data you put in 
  them, can be concerning, health record stuff is dangerous, as 
  Kaliya mentioned on the mailing list. It is not a VC. Manu's 
  personal opinion is not a VC, isn't interoperable, but they got a 
  bunch of tech providers to agree to use it, so there is that. 
  There are some deeply concerning things about the way it is 
  deployed. +1 to voicing that opinion.
<heather_vescent> ... what we (the company) have seen, is 
  companies using VC, Verifiable Credentials, it's got a good 
  brand, a number of companies external to this community, in ways 
  that are not aligned at all for the technology to be, and they 
  aren't even using the technology (we developed here) under the 
  scenes.
<heather_vescent> ... it would be good to make a statement, like 
  the way this is constructed, is problematic, because of 
  [specifics] and here are concerns.
<heather_vescent> ... I think the working groups should be able 
  to say stuff like that.
<heather_vescent> ... and people will listen, if we can agree to 
  the statements.
<heather_vescent> ... writing a paper is something that will 
  (likely) fail. But a paragraph. +1 to Kaliya for the community to 
  say things like this in an official capacity.
<heather_vescent> ... also curious about all this plumbing that 
  we assume exists (e.g. LDS) but this community is busy, but has 
  not been involved in the 300 emails that have changed hands in 
  the semantic web group.
<identitywoman> (I'm working on a white paper about the issues 
  with QR codes at ToIP) -  would be great to have a paragraph 
  about the issues from CCG
<kim> we can make it easier on ourselves by defining conformance 
  criteria and getting ahead of the messaging; being more precise 
  with "Verifiable Credential"
<heather_vescent> ... what people are seeing there, is a 
  disinterest from teh CCG because we (the CCG) is not there 
  participating. So commenting about what is going on in the 
  market, (Health Record) but I feel like we are tripping over some 
  fundamentals. We are assuming some tech will be formalized. 
  (Being a little hyperbolic.) BUt people are not seeing this 
  community's thoughts about this. And this is a problem, because 
  we have a big stake in that work succeeding. There may be some 
  fundamental work that we need to do (e.g. LDS).
Mike Prorock: +1 Manu - LDS is a key fundamental base for the 
  rest of all the things
Heather Vescent:  It sounds like there is interest in putting 
  together statement about something. Want to invite Kaliya to 
  start issue on CCG Github as something to start. This would be 
  great.
Heather Vescent:  Diversity / inclusion -- work together, would 
  support that as a Chair and org.
Ryan Grant:  As focus for group, maintain visual picture of 
  various projects we're aware of are interop'ing... I keep trying 
  to build that picture on the calls, some days it works well, some 
  days it doesn't, just an idea.
<kezike> Right Kim, similarly I was going to suggest encouraging 
  implementation of vc-http-api as vetting mechanism via the test 
  suite conformance
Ted Thibodeau:  Just a suggestion, Kaliya -- don't know if you're 
  interested, co-author, co-editor, brief statement that sums up 
  where CCG and VCWG stand on QR Codes -- we all know X.
<identitywoman> sorry - I forgot we have dates for the special 
  topics IIWs   July 22nd for UX/UI in SSI and August 4th for the 
  Business of SSI.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  The thing around misuse of Verifiable 
  Credentials, several things now that we're getting into a state 
  -- conformance criteria, make lives easier on ourselves if there 
  are tests -- we don't have to be so reactive to people saying: 
  "This is a Verifiable Credential." -- might save us from every 
  instance of violation, of which they are many.
<mprorock> thanks all!
Heather Vescent:  Thanks all for the meeting today -- next week, 
  Victor from CCG101 that will go over survey we sent out. Thanks 
  everyone, have a great day.
