[2023-02-14T16:55:25.192Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2023-02-14T16:55:25.908Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2023-02-14T16:56:34.388Z]	<Limari_(DIF)>	present+
[2023-02-14T16:56:45.267Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2023-02-14T16:57:33.249Z]	<Limari_(DIF)>	brb
[2023-02-14T16:59:09.870Z]	<Alan_Karp>	present+
[2023-02-14T16:59:29.773Z]	<Bryan_Luisana>	present+
[2023-02-14T16:59:51.563Z]	<Anil_John_[US/DHS/SVIP]>	present+
[2023-02-14T16:59:56.852Z]	<Jennie_Meier>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:01:33.620Z]	<kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:01:55.119Z]	<Sarah_Aquino>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:02:09.489Z]	<Jeff_O_-_HumanOS>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:02:32.733Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-02-14T17:02:32.733Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2023-02-14T17:02:57.823Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Hold on a second I think you might be some issues with the recording so give me a second.
[2023-02-14T17:03:32.561Z]	<David_Lehn>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:03:38.907Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:04:04.667Z]	<Jaime_Minor>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:04:18.973Z]	<Jennie_Meier>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:04:19.381Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:04:38.970Z]	<Sandy_Aggarwal>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:04:42.645Z]	<Charles>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:04:53.035Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:05:19.972Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	they did schedule their lunch for 12:15 so hopefully some of them will join.
[2023-02-14T17:05:44.327Z]	<Tayken_(LEF)>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:06:11.779Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:06:33.688Z]	<Limari_(DIF)>	Great!
[2023-02-14T17:07:47.686Z]	<Leo>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:07:55.306Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	https://www.apacdigitalid.org/
[2023-02-14T17:07:55.502Z]	<Anil_John_[US/DHS/SVIP]>	What is the intent/scope of the Fediverse event?
[2023-02-14T17:08:05.049Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	https://thoughtfulbiometrics.org/
[2023-02-14T17:08:11.953Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	https://fediforum.org/
[2023-02-14T17:08:20.057Z]	<Eric_Sembrat_(Georgia_Tech,_him/his)>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:08:25.574Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	@anil social media - like mastadon et al
[2023-02-14T17:09:01.174Z]	<Gilad_Rosner>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:09:11.424Z]	<Taylor_(LEF)>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:09:12.334Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/credentials/calendar
[2023-02-14T17:13:07.989Z]	<Sandy_Aggarwal>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:20:55.451Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	https://www.govops.ca.gov/wp-content/uploads/sites/11/2021/06/BWG-Final-Report-2020-July1.pdf?emrc=1c06a5
[2023-02-14T17:22:32.944Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:29:34.703Z]	<Jennie_Meier>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:31:03.395Z]	<Andrew_Whitehead>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:31:52.647Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7udQjSvrjxE
[2023-02-14T17:33:36.587Z]	<Jennie_Meier>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:33:58.419Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7udQjSvrjxE
[2023-02-14T17:36:30.830Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	https://www.govops.ca.gov/wp-content/uploads/sites/11/2022/12/Blockchain-Report-12-2-22.pdf
[2023-02-14T17:36:59.753Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:44:16.247Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2023-02-14T17:46:17.434Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q?
[2023-02-14T17:46:31.406Z]	<Alan_Karp>	q+
[2023-02-14T17:46:49.719Z]	<Anil_John_[US/DHS/SVIP]>	q+
[2023-02-14T17:49:12.659Z]	<Limari_(DIF)>	q+
[2023-02-14T17:49:25.812Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack alan
[2023-02-14T17:51:37.557Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack anil
[2023-02-14T17:56:30.004Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack limari
[2023-02-14T17:56:46.009Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q?
[2023-02-14T17:56:52.519Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	blockadvocacy.org
[2023-02-14T17:56:57.643Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	info@blockadvocacy.com
[2023-02-14T17:57:49.830Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	also the slides we shared are up on my site https://identitywoman.net/wp-content/uploads/CCG-VCPC-2.pdf
[2023-02-14T17:58:27.513Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	Please reach out if you would like to be involved with the Verifiable Credentials Policy Committee - or any of the other committees.
[2023-02-14T17:58:34.393Z]	<Anil_John_[US/DHS/SVIP]>	I do think that there is an aversion to the term "blockchain" in the identity community **in the US** that does not exist to that exist to that degree in the EU (because of the federated nature of their Member States and their focus on anti-competitive measures)
[2023-02-14T17:59:06.633Z]	<Limari_(DIF)>	I'm thinking more of the legislators
[2023-02-14T18:00:15.782Z]	<Anil_John_[US/DHS/SVIP]>	There is a lesson for legislators in how EU/EC/EBSI is walking the path -- distributed metadata infrastructure <shrug>