[2022-03-28T15:01:49.339Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:01:49.340Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:01:49.341Z]	<Deepak>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:01:49.341Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:01:49.342Z]	<Andy_Miller>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:01:49.342Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:01:49.342Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:01:49.343Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:01:49.944Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:01:51.578Z]	<Nate_Otto_(Badgr/CSky)>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:01:54.695Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:02:15.524Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	chair: Kerri_Lemoie
[2022-03-28T15:02:15.525Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2022Mar/0008.html
[2022-03-28T15:02:19.394Z]	<Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:02:34.180Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:02:39.556Z]	<Tim_Bouma>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:02:48.145Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:03:16.203Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:03:20.130Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:03:26.507Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-03-28T15:03:26.507Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2022-03-28T15:03:49.955Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hello everybody and welcome to the March 28th edition of the BBC education task force.
[2022-03-28T15:03:50.036Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:03:54.856Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:04:02.895Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:04:07.451Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: You go through some some announcements boilerplate first and then we'll get going on our main topic today which is a presentation on the MIT digital credential Consortium sour otherwise none of the DCCC learner wallet.
[2022-03-28T15:04:31.757Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: IP Note
[2022-03-28T15:04:31.758Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2022-03-28T15:04:32.857Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: So I'm first IP don't know that anyone can participate in these calls is an open Community however I'll substitute contributors to any of the ccg work items must be members of the ccg with full IP our agreement science this is for for IP protection for the members you can read more about this right here in the link that I'm putting in the Trap.
[2022-03-28T15:04:33.385Z]	<Kaliya>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:04:42.557Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:04:42.558Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Call Notes
[2022-03-28T15:05:05.437Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Secondly know that this call and most calls at the ccg are recorded the audio recording and the minutes are transcribed please note that we've been having some some issues with the recording so it could be possible that we will lose the recording during the presentation if that happens typically the transcriber keeps going to then we will we will have a transcription of the entire meeting.
[2022-03-28T15:05:05.842Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  you may see.
[2022-03-28T15:05:38.833Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Transcriber you probably will notice that in the transcriber in the chat and sometimes the transcriber gets a little wonky and or you know presenters like me don't speak exactly clearly and in misinterprets us and if you see this we would appreciate it if you could do a substitution during the meeting so that we can catch this before publishing the minutes and to do that you would type you type in s forward slash the phrase or word you want to.
[2022-03-28T15:05:39.326Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  a place and then the other other placement so it would look.
[2022-03-28T15:05:41.648Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Put it in the chat.
[2022-03-28T15:05:48.791Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	s/wrong word/right word/
[2022-03-28T15:06:00.466Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2022-03-28T15:06:06.071Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2022-03-28T15:06:08.010Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Seven here in the chat we have substitute wrong word with the right word also we follow a queue system on these calls so please type Q Plus to put yourself in the queue and then if you decided you'd fill our want to be in the queue just put q-.
[2022-03-28T15:06:22.369Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2022-03-28T15:06:24.587Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'm in all of the meetings are archived and find the link I will put the link here we go so all of the archive notes later if you do make these calls you can find them.
[2022-03-28T15:06:24.588Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2022-03-28T15:06:41.993Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay so next introductions and reintroductions there anybody here in the call today who's new to this call and would like to introduce themselves so please go ahead and kill yourself.
[2022-03-28T15:06:53.020Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay how about I reintroductions is there anyone here would like to reduce reintroduce themselves or tell us what they're working on right now.
[2022-03-28T15:07:05.439Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I just noticed the transcriber says kill yourself instead of Q yourself so I'm going to fix that right now.
[2022-03-28T15:07:05.842Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	s/kill yourself./queue yourself
[2022-03-28T15:07:07.250Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	LOL
[2022-03-28T15:07:10.637Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yes you're in the queue.
[2022-03-28T15:07:22.030Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	s/Yes/Kaliya,
[2022-03-28T15:07:22.907Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: Hi I don't know if I've ever introduced myself on this call and I have fun new things to share so my name is Kalia young my handle online is identity Woman and.
[2022-03-28T15:07:27.371Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:07:42.685Z]	<Colin,_LEF>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:07:54.206Z]	<Nate_Otto_(Badgr/CSky)>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:07:56.096Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: I've been at this a very long time I just went to the forest this weekend and I was like really I just want to facilitate but we still have some more work to do here and to join any I guess I started really with my first job in that field in 2004 and I founded the internet identity Workshop in 2005 so you're all invited it's coming up April 26th to 28th in Mountain View California and I.
[2022-03-28T15:07:56.615Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: Just recently launched a consultancy.
[2022-03-28T15:08:07.570Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	IIW: https://internetidentityworkshop.com/
[2022-03-28T15:08:21.195Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: Blue sea to support both startups in the space trying to understand their strategy and go to market but also Enterprise is considering adopting the technology and helping them understand both the technology and what vendors might be a good fit for them and what their use cases are so that's really exciting.
[2022-03-28T15:08:29.000Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: It is really exciting awesome.
[2022-03-28T15:08:37.541Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: So it's yeah so it's a URL and I'm on my phone so I can't really type it is Consulting dot identity woman done it if people are interested.
[2022-03-28T15:08:54.333Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: Sorry I'll say one more thing I also teach a community college so I have kind of understand the education space a little bit from that perspective.
[2022-03-28T15:08:59.686Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey did you say it was Consulting that I did any women that net.
[2022-03-28T15:09:07.780Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:09:11.929Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	+1 Kaliya - CCs need people like you!
[2022-03-28T15:09:12.085Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Anyone else in the queue to do reintroductions today.
[2022-03-28T15:09:36.372Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2022-03-28T15:09:30.672Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay don't have any announcements I would have I'm announcing internet identity workshop with Kaliya just did that did anyone else have any announcements they would like to make today any events coming up or launches or projects you would like to tell folks about.
[2022-03-28T15:09:36.372Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:09:41.721Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: So I'll say that on Friday I'm hosting a workshop that's half a day called mitigating Harms in web 3.
[2022-03-28T15:09:51.993Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2022-03-28T15:09:52.486Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: Um and if you type mitigating harms into web 3 and Eventbrite into your browser it'll come out.
[2022-03-28T15:09:57.329Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: Quick into a search engine.
[2022-03-28T15:09:59.720Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.eventbrite.com/e/mitigating-harms-in-web3-tickets-260675526517
[2022-03-28T15:10:00.173Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I just found it I will put the link in here.
[2022-03-28T15:10:02.409Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:10:07.363Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:10:09.129Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay anybody else like to say anything.
[2022-03-28T15:10:12.652Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Phil Long - you're in the queue
[2022-03-28T15:10:28.752Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2022-03-28T15:10:36.656Z]	<David_Ward>	s/Consulting that I did any women that net./consulting.identitywoman.net/
[2022-03-28T15:10:41.020Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): Yeah just just a note for people that the digital promise project on lers for equity which is intended to develop principles to guide people building lers for particularly minority populations that report should be coming out in April relatively early April mid-april something like that so keep an eye out it's under the auspices of digital promise and we'll be up on both.
[2022-03-28T15:10:41.335Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1):  their sight.
[2022-03-28T15:10:47.075Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: Sorry what's an L ER.
[2022-03-28T15:11:00.687Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): Learning and employment record that's the phrase that's being used by some to represent a form of verifiable credential for those communities.
[2022-03-28T15:11:07.741Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thanks for telling us about that feel when it comes out would you mind sending it out to the VC email list.
[2022-03-28T15:11:09.650Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): I'd be happy to do that.
[2022-03-28T15:11:28.697Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you and for those who aren't familiar with that and not sign up for that yet that is we have an email list for specifically for this task group and addition to the ccg group let me pull that up for you too so you have that you can sign up if you haven't this is where we tend to have more.
[2022-03-28T15:11:33.379Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/
[2022-03-28T15:11:51.675Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And then they don't need to be technical discussions we can just talk about theoretically a verifiable credentials and identity and education on this list also on the ccg list by the way but if you're looking for having an education specific purpose discussion then you can post here.
[2022-03-28T15:11:52.203Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:12:14.129Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey great I don't see anybody else in the queue but if you decide to you know say something else later I'm feel free to put yourself in the queue what I would like now is introduce Brandon from MIT Brandon could you pronounce your last name for us make sure I get it right.
[2022-03-28T15:12:14.129Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> Topic: MIT Digital Credentials Consortium (DCC) Learner Wallet with Brandon_Muramatsu
[2022-03-28T15:12:22.148Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: In theory if you can hear me it's I pronounce it muramatsu however if you're actually Japanese or potentially Spanish speaker you probably pronounce it differently.
[2022-03-28T15:12:26.074Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: How could you say so I'm curious.
[2022-03-28T15:12:32.037Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Different use of the you thank you.
[2022-03-28T15:12:40.268Z]	<Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rBTr1HtzOmQY9EMph3IIqRh2vCT_rpnxwhCdpOju3wQ/
[2022-03-28T15:12:47.858Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Oh yes well thank you for being here that's what makes sense but thanks for being here today you are welcome to share your presentation and we'll keep an eye on the cue for you and let you know if any questions come up otherwise we can have more of a discussion when you're done.
[2022-03-28T15:12:54.518Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Sounds good let's see if.
[2022-03-28T15:13:03.293Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: That's not quite what I want to do.
[2022-03-28T15:13:09.017Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Is there a way of just sharing a window.
[2022-03-28T15:13:13.520Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'm going to pull this up.
[2022-03-28T15:13:23.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I think so yeah when you click share on the top there are tabs this is entire screen than window then Chrome tab.
[2022-03-28T15:13:27.759Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Yeah not within Brave I it doesn't.
[2022-03-28T15:13:30.527Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: I could be a brave specific thing.
[2022-03-28T15:13:39.274Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: So I guess we will do it this way so I will not be able to follow along which app.
[2022-03-28T15:13:41.748Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: That's okay I'll keep an eye on the chat for you.
[2022-03-28T15:13:57.353Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rBTr1HtzOmQY9EMph3IIqRh2vCT_rpnxwhCdpOju3wQ/
[2022-03-28T15:14:10.521Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Okay I dropped a link to the slides into the chat before I switched over to sort of this full screen view thank you Carrie and you to the task group for inviting me to speak I'm going to share some of the work that many of you already know some parts about and some of you who contributed to the specification upon which the team here built the learner credential wallet the team here is a team of a number.
[2022-03-28T15:14:10.846Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT:  of individuals including.
[2022-03-28T15:14:38.565Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: He was one of the co-chairs myself Philip Schmidt Gillian Walsh and Krishna Raja gopal we also have Lee gal door for who's visiting is visiting researcher from the Technical University of Munich with us for a few more days and that I am happy to present on all of their Collective work.
[2022-03-28T15:15:11.573Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Thought I'd start off with a very brief overview of the digital credentials Consortium and then talk about the learner credential wallet in particular digital credentials Consortium was formed in 2018 to with mission and vision to create a landscape to improve and Chrysler agency focusing on Equitable ER and career Pathways and then our mission to build a digital academic credentials infrastructure.
[2022-03-28T15:15:11.988Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT:  for the future here are the twelve foundations.
[2022-03-28T15:15:42.484Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: A if you are interested we do have a white paper at bit.ly slash capital D CC Dash white paper describes the the philosophy and some of the high-level technical goals of the credentials Consortium the members are primarily research universities across North America the US Canada and Mexico and in Europe.
[2022-03-28T15:15:42.856Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT:  with it.
[2022-03-28T15:15:42.976Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Need to know.
[2022-03-28T15:15:47.996Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:15:49.993Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:15:55.444Z]	<Taylor>	s/foundations/founding members
[2022-03-28T15:16:17.060Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: We're getting principles and values we actually have a larger list of these in the white paper but we sort of boiled it down to these three things with folks on Learners issuers and trust and in particular equipment to learner agency issuer control where the issuer's control the to whom they issue credentials what and what the credential represents and the commitment to open processes Open Standards open software and.
[2022-03-28T15:16:26.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Verified without consulting the original issuer all of the things that should sound familiar to everybody here in the task group.
[2022-03-28T15:16:29.918Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:16:56.977Z]	<Sandro_Cacciamani>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:16:59.174Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: How does the DCCC do its work working through organizations like w3c sitting in on IMS CLR and badges V3 efforts connection to the international efforts through our European partners and then we host all of our software or open source open source software at github.com digital credentials.
[2022-03-28T15:17:11.012Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: This is the members individual universities build and launch their own pilots and we do our coordination through the technical working group.
[2022-03-28T15:17:11.253Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:17:21.017Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: And as we move forward this year we hope to continue to strengthen relationships with vendors and add more pilots to the mix.
[2022-03-28T15:17:27.442Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:17:31.841Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: I should mention it's fine with me carry if folks have questions along the way especially as we get into the demo so just go and interrupt me whenever.
[2022-03-28T15:17:33.638Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Sure no question tip.
[2022-03-28T15:17:47.043Z]	<PL>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:17:52.709Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	s/question tip./questions yet./
[2022-03-28T15:18:00.505Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: What's been most of the time talking about a project that's primarily funded by the US Department of Education along with some additional funding from Walmart it's a project to develop an open source wallet when the team was discussing a potential project with the Department of Education the.
[2022-03-28T15:18:00.837Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT:  where everybody.
[2022-03-28T15:18:33.046Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Sort of the decision came down to is that one of the key missing parts of the ecosystem was in fact an open source wallet that individuals could use to hold their credentials that was not necessarily tied to a particular issue or whether that issue or be a university or a vendor so the team set about to build an open source wallet to to support that learner agency and prevent lock-in it also ends up establishing a.
[2022-03-28T15:18:33.285Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT:  since implementation of many of the.
[2022-03-28T15:19:03.996Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Bulls of the Consortium as well as that are contained within verifiable credentials we release the specification last year in May of twenty Twenty-One and thank you to everyone in this group that contributed to the drafts of the specification we published the open source code for the mobile apps in December 20 21 the apps themselves we.
[2022-03-28T15:19:04.345Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT:  finally succeeded in getting.
[2022-03-28T15:19:09.077Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:19:12.630Z]	<PL>	q+ how was the Universal Wallet spec considered/used/ or not in the DCC wallet design effort?
[2022-03-28T15:19:24.418Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: To the app stores in February of this year we are running deployment Pilots with Georgia Tech College in Downtown San Jose City College and two of our colleagues Matt and Stewart from Georgia Tech are on the call today and as I mentioned it was supported by Department US Department of Education and Walmart.
[2022-03-28T15:19:31.718Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey Batman interrupt you we have a somebody in the queue so long so thank you.
[2022-03-28T15:19:38.706Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack PL
[2022-03-28T15:19:55.247Z]	<Transcriber>	PL: Hey Brandon can you just click quick question is there or was there consideration and reference to the so-called Universal while expect that Ori had contributed earlier to the ccg in the design of the universal of the DCCC wallet and or was that used in as a framework.
[2022-03-28T15:19:58.912Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: In fact yes and I'll get that actual in a couple slides.
[2022-03-28T15:20:03.173Z]	<Transcriber>	PL: Sorry to jump the gun.
[2022-03-28T15:20:08.888Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: There you go stealing the Thunder again Phil I've known Phil for many many years now.
[2022-03-28T15:20:20.365Z]	<Frank_C_Cicio_Jr>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:20:28.978Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:20:36.907Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Um continuing typo on this slide that I'll fix so the specification in implements the VC data model uses that Universal wallet spec that Phil was just mentioning it also is informed by the lar rapper at wallet specification and what we did with the specification is used to define the minimum viable product that we then implemented in IOS and Android.
[2022-03-28T15:20:47.706Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: I will not read out that URL if someone could paste that into chat either Dimitri said she can find it or carry.
[2022-03-28T15:21:01.080Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Here's the home screen the website for the wallet it's http://oc.lc/support.
[2022-03-28T15:21:26.455Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	app: https://lcw.app
[2022-03-28T15:21:30.185Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: I was frankly surprised we could get a three level done hostname during domain name so that's what we ended up going with the app is available for from the Apple App Store and on the Google Play Store so key features of the wallet I'll go over real high level just sort of talking it through then I'll do a demo of the wallet itself.
[2022-03-28T15:21:30.483Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT:  the wall is entitled.
[2022-03-28T15:21:41.674Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Spec link: https://digitalcredentials.mit.edu/docs/Learner-Credential-Wallet-Specification-May-2021.pdf
[2022-03-28T15:21:53.770Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:22:03.017Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Mobile device there are no user accounts so there is no web account that you create or user account the the wall is secured with a local passphrase you can add dc-based credentials from a deep link from registered issuer or via QR code that either represents that deep link or that has a fully contained VC in the qr-code the initial support was for diploma like or program certificate.
[2022-03-28T15:22:03.338Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT:  cat-like credentials sort of end stage crew.
[2022-03-28T15:22:30.046Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Trolls you can preview the credential it's sort of a human-readable form within the app or you can read the Json if that's your jam you can share the credentials using the the operating system share sheets and to being a Json verifiable presentation that can include multiple VCS you can backup and restore the wallet you can delete the credential you can also reset the wallet.
[2022-03-28T15:23:00.114Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:23:03.118Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Today I'll do two demos one is from a learning management system this is building on the work that Matt and Stewart at Georgia Tech did using LTI issue or an accredited been that can be found in our GitHub repo and what this does IT issues a verifiable credential from a from canvas into the wallet and then I'll walk you through a workflow for using a deep link to add the credential to the wallet using the sign and verify.
[2022-03-28T15:23:03.798Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: I Docker image that we.
[2022-03-28T15:23:10.271Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:23:11.064Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: This oughta be fun.
[2022-03-28T15:23:34.805Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Mostly say you don't see my crazy screen in theory deep does everyone see the learner credential wallet the start setup on it screen.
[2022-03-28T15:23:51.936Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Let's do that so I have downloaded installed the wallet from the Apple App Store I can go ahead and start the setup it asks me to enter a password.
[2022-03-28T15:24:27.066Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: And then it goes ahead and initialize the wallet so I can go to the wallet from within the wallet basically the next thing to do is add a credential inadequate uncial by scanning a QR code or following a deep link I'm going to use the scenario where I'm a student in a course at Georgia Tech my in I've completed the course my instructor has issued me a.
[2022-03-28T15:24:27.676Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Natural and so.
[2022-03-28T15:24:45.018Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:24:54.855Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Go over to the Georgia Tech my log into canvas go to my course within Georgia Tech I can go to in this case a demo credential where developed through the apps developed by the team at Georgia Tech and I can go ahead and claim the credential I follow the link it opens with in the wallet.
[2022-03-28T15:25:25.856Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: To make sure that the issuer knows who I am or who they think I should be I'll use single sign-on through Georgia Tech I had done this earlier today normally I would have entered my username and password I click on allow and then the issuer offers it up to offers the credential up to me I can preview that credential seeing that.
[2022-03-28T15:25:48.059Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: You the issuance date website description and that the credential is verified these are the checks that are run in the background to check for verification digital signatures the issuer institution is registered credential is not expired.
[2022-03-28T15:25:53.605Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:26:12.258Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: I can go ahead and accept the credential it's been added to my wallet and then click done and there I've got the credential in my wallet I preview it I can see the same thing I saw previously I can also click this 3. Menu and I can choose to share the credential I can get the details of the credential which is the Json raw Json for the credential.
[2022-03-28T15:26:12.575Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT:  I can also.
[2022-03-28T15:26:24.825Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:26:25.652Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Individual credential I'm going to hold off the share example until I go through the second demo but I'll go ahead and pause for a second to see if there any questions.
[2022-03-28T15:26:32.813Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2022-03-28T15:26:55.833Z]	<Luigi_Susanna>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:26:57.135Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'm the queue is empty so I'm going to excuse myself up before you remember anything in mind could you walk us through something some people may have questions about this walk us through issue a registration and key choices things like this sort of dig in a little bit into the technical aspects I know Demetrius here but also if you wouldn't mind starting a little bit there.
[2022-03-28T15:27:04.096Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Kerri_Lemoie
[2022-03-28T15:27:07.001Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:27:17.519Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Sure and I'm going to kick it over to Dimitri pretty quick so the way things are currently implemented Dimitri please chime in at any point in time we are running it a registry of issuers so in order for the wallet to accept credentials the organization's need to be in the issuer registry with there.
[2022-03-28T15:27:48.763Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: And other metadata Dimitri can go into the details of why we're doing it this way but it's sort of a step along a path towards a more robust registry I'll tell you right now that one of the current limitations of the wall it is that every new issuer needs to be added to the wallet source code and the compiled and new version issued its the balance of.
[2022-03-28T15:27:49.118Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT:  quick to get done.
[2022-03-28T15:27:54.444Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:28:01.271Z]	<PL>	What key issuer are you using?
[2022-03-28T15:28:08.643Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Versus long-term maintenance and sustainability and I think roof as I was chatting with Dimitri last week we're finally at the point where it really would have been nice for us to implement kind of a more robust issuer registry and so Dimitri if you want to pick up there and or talk about keys.
[2022-03-28T15:28:13.459Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:28:37.610Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Of course thank you thanks Brandon yeah so like been mentioned right now the issue registry is embedded into the wallet our one of our very next roadmap items is to have it communicated with an actual registry as opposed to having to release a new app so just one thing I want to mention is that those of you working on wallets right now you will definitely need to.
[2022-03-28T15:29:10.499Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Some sort of issue a registry right it's a big problem in our space I know there's some standards work being done by at the trust over IP community and I know coleus part of that community so she can answer questions there but what it is it's basically it's a list it's a mapping of bids to real world entities since this is a b c's are all about what the trust architecture and this specifically is educational use.
[2022-03-28T15:29:10.790Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z:  is case we at least need to know.
[2022-03-28T15:29:18.358Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:29:19.702Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Looking at a credential in the viewer is this a credential from a legitimate educational.
[2022-03-28T15:29:22.656Z]	<Agnese_Salutari>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:29:27.232Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Institution what it's name is and so on now what makes for a legitimate educational Institution.
[2022-03-28T15:29:41.684Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:29:51.007Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Cesar subject of a long conversation and will depend on your particular project your particular trust architecture and so on right that's so we're just going for a very very basic not even trust over IP level but a very basic flat list of these are the issuer's participating in the pilot.
[2022-03-28T15:29:53.785Z]	<Nikos_Fotiou>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:30:11.146Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2022-03-28T15:30:16.813Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:30:17.001Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Again with as far as the key choices out we just started with Edwards curve ed2 5519 2023 we're open to adding new key types as people use cases dictate but we just started with most common one that we deserve.
[2022-03-28T15:30:19.184Z]	<PL>	thanks Dmitri
[2022-03-28T15:30:21.142Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you my dear in the cube.
[2022-03-28T15:30:26.961Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marty_Reed
[2022-03-28T15:30:48.974Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Yeah so I just wanted to ask from you know that that discussion Dimitri on Registries what do you think about the work in glyph' and then at least from CLR 2.0 potentially we're looking at the idea of a proof registry and there's already been some work done by.
[2022-03-28T15:30:57.696Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:31:00.434Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: By the BC work group so just curious on your thoughts on some of the existing registry strategies out there Beyond trust over IP.
[2022-03-28T15:31:09.470Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Sure good questions both so yeah we for the pilot we basically picked the first one from the ccg proof registry.
[2022-03-28T15:31:24.972Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:31:27.709Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	q+ to ask about the Trusted Issuers Registry in EBSI
[2022-03-28T15:31:37.010Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	https://ec.europa.eu/digital-building-blocks/wikis/display/EBSIDOC/Trusted+Issuers+Registry+API
[2022-03-28T15:31:37.173Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Right so which went there okay what's the most commonly used key in that registry that Edwards curve let's just try that I'm less familiar with ag life work then I would like to be off from what I understand is not quite compatible with the current infrastructure here it's using slightly different Tech stock we're certainly open to interoperating with it in the future.
[2022-03-28T15:31:40.938Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:31:49.812Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: You have the floor.
[2022-03-28T15:31:51.681Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:31:55.538Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	sorry to join late, I had a conflict for the first half
[2022-03-28T15:32:08.606Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: Thank you hey Brandon had Dmitry I'm question on the Registries if you been looking at all at the trusted issuers registry as specified in the European blockchain service infrastructure particularly given that a few of the partners in d.c. are in Europe.
[2022-03-28T15:32:27.165Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:32:30.784Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: No not yet mostly because when we were laying down the foundation of this pilot it was I think at least a year and a half ago I think slightly before the the document came out at AB c-- so we're definitely aware of that work and we'd like to.
[2022-03-28T15:32:31.081Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z:  be compatible.
[2022-03-28T15:32:38.575Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Simone_Ravaioli
[2022-03-28T15:32:39.564Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: As I roadmap and budget permits it was just we're a slightly earlier iteration before that.
[2022-03-28T15:32:49.531Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:33:16.407Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: Just to say that there are two levels of registry work and my understanding is that the efforts of trust over IP are focused on listing on focused on Registries like you could use the standards that they're developing to have a registry listing of higher educational institutions.
[2022-03-28T15:33:26.447Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: That you know for people to track 2 and that the train work is Registries of registries.
[2022-03-28T15:33:34.756Z]	<PL>	train (?) work?
[2022-03-28T15:33:42.053Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: So that's what the global covid certificate Network that came out of the good House pass work is using to build its its registry Registries so there's two.
[2022-03-28T15:33:48.647Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: Levels of the problem that both have active work going on in.
[2022-03-28T15:33:55.752Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Thank Scalia quick clarification question I what do you mean by train effort or train work.
[2022-03-28T15:33:57.711Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya: That's the that's the stuff he was referencing in Europe I believe.
[2022-03-28T15:34:05.685Z]	<PL>	Thanks
[2022-03-28T15:34:12.648Z]	<PL>	Q+
[2022-03-28T15:34:21.573Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:34:42.712Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Phew - accidentally left the call - glad it is still going!
[2022-03-28T15:34:47.964Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:34:54.065Z]	<Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT>	LOL Kerri
[2022-03-28T15:35:45.823Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack PL
[2022-03-28T15:35:49.925Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:37:11.937Z]	<Tim_Bouma>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:37:27.905Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:38:01.124Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:38:27.641Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:40:33.984Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:41:27.786Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:42:07.319Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:42:42.263Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-03-28T15:42:42.263Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2022-03-28T15:42:58.579Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Meaning if you don't put Giant images or PDFs into them you can fit the entire credit on a QR code that's a Brandon's doing there to add a second image sorry second please.
[2022-03-28T15:43:03.619Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Thank you Dimitri and so I'll go ahead and accept it into the wallet.
[2022-03-28T15:43:20.428Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: And then back from the home screen I now see that I have this to credentials the original one I added by following the link through from canvas and then the link I just added in through the qr-code.
[2022-03-28T15:43:22.431Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	the demo usefully shows how the basic VC fields are not sufficient to provide rich and differentiating information about the credential-- which is an opportunity for referencing CTDL information about the credential
[2022-03-28T15:43:53.450Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: I guess we should also mention if you're following along the reason we did the QR code even though I talked about following a deep Link in an email is because we don't have all of the systems connected up on the back end for me to fully live demo with San Jose City College right now but I can choose to share these credentials I can if I had three four five credentials in the wallet I could choose to share any number of them I'm going to go ahead and share the to credentials I have.
[2022-03-28T15:44:26.122Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Them or I can go to them in the description of the wallet and so the easiest would do this is to send it to notes and go ahead and save it and notes and then I come out to notes I open it up and it's a final presentation with both credentials cluded within it this is great if your system can read Json.
[2022-03-28T15:44:31.781Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: It's not particularly useful to individuals at this point in time.
[2022-03-28T15:44:49.461Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: And that was the the remaining part of the demo I guess you can also you can restore the wallet you can backup the wallet you can reset it and you can sign out if you wanted to put your password lock in.
[2022-03-28T15:45:23.771Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: They expanded into references back as easy to do but before you do I just want to know something that Deb said they've ever heard said in the chat which is I'm sobriety for referencing see CDL information about the credential of folks should also know they were working on open badges working with this wallet to with any wallet really we're working on open badges 3.0 and also hopefully here we can also talk about.
[2022-03-28T15:45:24.153Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  more about how CTL fits into that.
[2022-03-28T15:45:30.655Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Dimitri and headed back to you either.
[2022-03-28T15:45:31.151Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	+1 CTDL+open badges
[2022-03-28T15:45:43.472Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I think it's the week after next.
[2022-03-28T15:45:57.431Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Sure and in fact just to add to what Kerry just said we are going to be talking about CDL specifically in one of the next calls upcoming I think it's next week or the week after that alright excellent yeah so stay tuned about that so I wanted to highlight a couple more things just to illuminate the ccg open ID connect and wallets selection.
[2022-03-28T15:45:57.810Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z:  email into.
[2022-03-28T15:46:04.733Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: And how connects to this so there's a couple of things to notice about this wall of right now.
[2022-03-28T15:46:08.721Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: One is that.
[2022-03-28T15:46:29.285Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: VC API incubated at the credentials community group and open 80 connect in this wallet so the the demo workflow that Brandon just were walked through used open as you connect.
[2022-03-28T15:46:32.413Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: To bind to.
[2022-03-28T15:47:02.431Z]	<PL>	Dmitri - by that you mean using the social login services that depend on OpenID Connect.
[2022-03-28T15:47:02.648Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: To interoperate with the University's existing user Management Systems right so all the emergency is out there somewhere on the server there exists a database that has the students that are participating and the student instead of having a decentralized identifier probably has some opaque user ID so our challenge is unit as well as Builders is.
[2022-03-28T15:47:02.988Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z:  we're bringing all of this.
[2022-03-28T15:47:03.828Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:47:11.918Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: New tech we're bringing decentralised identifiers but we still need to connect those identifiers which the school is not aware of yet.
[2022-03-28T15:47:23.648Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: To that Row in the database that has a user ID and one of the recommended ways of doing that is what we're doing here in the wallet which is.
[2022-03-28T15:47:27.658Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Using openid connect for user Authentication.
[2022-03-28T15:47:40.331Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: And combining it with a verifiable presentation based did off so that the issuer receives the full package and knows that okay.
[2022-03-28T15:48:04.212Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: The user identified as Brandon here and the user is requesting that the credential is issued to this particular decentralised identifier which the wallet controls not not the university controls so that's that's thing want to notice think to is.
[2022-03-28T15:48:13.287Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:48:15.494Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Your notice we're skipping here just because we're demoing this particular wallet but the moment there becomes a second wallet that's compatible with this whole Tech stack.
[2022-03-28T15:48:38.715Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2022-03-28T15:48:47.060Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:48:49.197Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: We're going to run into the wallet selection problem so in that student email that Brandon showed like congratulations Dimitri you have a you have a course completion credential go pick it up the moment the students the learner clicks on that email they're going to be presented with a choice of great how do I how do I specify which wallet to get that into and that's what that long thread is arguing about and we have some.
[2022-03-28T15:48:49.591Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z:  solutions or it we have some thoughts on how to make the.
[2022-03-28T15:49:07.071Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:49:09.400Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2022-03-28T15:49:12.378Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: That whole process smoother but I just want you all to keep in mind that while it's elections super hard we're making it look easy here because it is a very focused pilot on this particular one wallet when we have more than one it's going to get merged.
[2022-03-28T15:49:45.960Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I think Amy kiss that's very helpful and actually last week we have that great discussion about the NASCAR situation open ID and that bread and ccg what we didn't get to last week was talking about identifiers with PCS and education and it's sort of like I'm sure we'll get to that at some point but to tie this to it Dmitri was just saying is that an open badges we have been issuing back.
[2022-03-28T15:49:46.361Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  badges so email addresses primarily.
[2022-03-28T15:50:09.182Z]	<PL>	So for expediency at this point you're punting on the NASCAR problem - makes sense.
[2022-03-28T15:50:17.695Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: For the last decade and and what open badges is looking at is actually presenting email address and the did in the credential at the same time so that they're visually mapped and so that a verifier could choose to check the email address in addition to the did if they wanted to say know what the email address or originally that the badge was issued to at a platform like badge or I work for instance we're actually in between the wallet and.
[2022-03-28T15:50:18.117Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  the issuing.
[2022-03-28T15:50:38.439Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:50:40.051Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: To organization would give the platform a badger an email address and but doesn't know anything about the did exchange and so this is it a schedule we want to have with all of you about identifiers because some of you will be also be hitting this as well so it gets a little bit complex I'm at that stage.
[2022-03-28T15:50:50.252Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Kerri_Lemoie
[2022-03-28T15:50:51.324Z]	<Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT>	q+
[2022-03-28T15:50:52.092Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I don't see anybody else in the queue does anybody else have any other sort of questions or comments about the demo and the wallet about this topic at all.
[2022-03-28T15:50:54.000Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:50:55.707Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:51:05.261Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT
[2022-03-28T15:51:09.764Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:51:25.597Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: I should add that for the pilot we chose a limited set of fields to display and to support in theory anything that's can be expressed as a VC can be included a template to display it visually just needs to be added to the wallet so if additional Fields email address for example or if you wanted to.
[2022-03-28T15:51:44.348Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:51:50.651Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: The CDL Street entry one could it's a matter of expressing it in a VC and making sure that the wallet knows how to render that within the VC the render that as there are multiple ways one could choose to express things in a VC.
[2022-03-28T15:52:06.076Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yeah thanks Brendon and actually I'm on that point could you tell us a little bit more about say what the Knicks the road map looks like Shay the next six months or a year for DC in the wall at work.
[2022-03-28T15:52:08.613Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:52:35.226Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: I am not exactly sure we are just coming to the end of the project actually today so after I get off at school to back and make sure that the final report is in shape to submit today we do have an issue with in the GitHub repo that starts to list some of the features that might be on the road map I have an item's honestly the many of those features come from the discussions that are underway.
[2022-03-28T15:53:07.465Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Within the United States couple different groups about wallet interoperability these do not touch on the wallet selection problem Dmitri was just talking about but rather if you want to assuming that the two wallets were mobile wallets exist how do you move credentials between those Wallets on the device and what other features might want a wallet to have we took our.
[2022-03-28T15:53:07.742Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT:  put a stake in the ground with.
[2022-03-28T15:53:25.715Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Must have required features for a learner credential wallet and specification there are a number of additional nice to have features and then there are a number of features when considering interoperability or moving credentials between wallets.
[2022-03-28T15:53:27.213Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	the wallet interop effort that Brandon is mentioning -- that relates to JFF, and our very own Sharon Leu, who is on this call now!
[2022-03-28T15:53:30.053Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:53:30.058Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Great thank you.
[2022-03-28T15:53:37.937Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Brandon isn't worth mentioning the web wallet component that might be on the road map.
[2022-03-28T15:54:05.517Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	s/isn't worth mentioning/is it worth mentioning/
[2022-03-28T15:54:08.066Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: I'm not entirely certain where that's going to end up I sent you an email over the weekend that I want to talk to you about so we talked about doing a quote web version of the wallet there are Demetria knows as much more intimately than I do a challenges in doing so while maintaining the values and privacy controls that DCC.
[2022-03-28T15:54:40.712Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: Somebody's a nice host the web wallet somewhere and does it just does it look like the mobile wallet is it what happens when you need me to or want to start adding features that include much more granular details I will say one of the things that concerns me is once we get to the point where folks want to share what one might call transcript level details individual courses lat.
[2022-03-28T15:55:00.025Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: With individual learning outcomes and wants to mix and match and share specific skills backed up by those learning outcomes I my brain just sort of does not know how to parse that on the screen the size of a mobile phone.
[2022-03-28T15:55:01.141Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:55:25.829Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Got very good points on all counts we're certainly going to have to get creative and careful with these full transcript style credentials how we are going to display them on a mobile phone and even on a big screen on a laptop or whatever lots of good UI work is going to go into there.
[2022-03-28T15:55:35.177Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Good topic for future group discussions?
[2022-03-28T15:55:42.827Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	+1 @Jim
[2022-03-28T15:55:44.438Z]	<Transcriber>	Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT: And possibly because I'm of a certain generation that even I can see how it can be done on a laptop screen or a large monitor I just don't grok how you can do that easily make user approach approachable to the user on a mobile phone.
[2022-03-28T15:55:45.789Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	+1, Jim!
[2022-03-28T15:55:58.001Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you we actually do have an issue also in b.c. I do about displaying credentials so we could pick this up and you try and help contribute to this work.
[2022-03-28T15:55:59.950Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:56:02.432Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Sorry to meet you today and speak over you.
[2022-03-28T15:56:05.292Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Absolutely no not at all not at all I just wanted to add to a Brennan was saying that.
[2022-03-28T15:56:16.334Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: That while it's a tricky one of the absolutely convenient things that we've enjoyed with this d.c. see what pilot wallet is.
[2022-03-28T15:56:24.876Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	s/meet you today and speak over you./speak over you, Dmitri/
[2022-03-28T15:56:47.283Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: The wall it is Sovereign it is self-contained meaning it controls the did and the keys and all of the credentials that the student receive live exclusively locally on the phone so we could sidestep all of the thorny questions of data privacy of you know what happens if the remote server goes down and loses the credentials all that stuff because.
[2022-03-28T15:56:53.199Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Up to the user and the user can back up their their wallet and all the keys.
[2022-03-28T15:57:23.391Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: It's out of our hands but the moment we have a custodial style web wallet now is the time for all sorts of discussions about data privacy about governance about backup and restore migration of the wall it's much harder I think as a community we're going to have to address all those questions anyways we know we all know that's coming on the horizon so yeah it is something we're continuing conversation about.
[2022-03-28T15:57:24.506Z]	<Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT>	agree, those discussions are coming
[2022-03-28T15:57:28.403Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-03-28T15:57:30.254Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yeah that makes sense to meet you thank you.
[2022-03-28T15:57:46.761Z]	<PL>	Great work by the DCC team!
[2022-03-28T15:57:54.693Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	Thanks!
[2022-03-28T15:57:56.460Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	thanks all!
[2022-03-28T15:57:58.481Z]	<Colin,_LEF>	Thanks all!
[2022-03-28T15:57:59.404Z]	<Brandon_Muramatsu,_MIT>	thanks all
[2022-03-28T15:58:00.861Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Brandon and Dimitri thank you very much for the presentation today leaving the discussions you know week by week we keep having deeper and deeper discussions on these calls and I think there's a lot of great work going on in this community I appreciate everyone being here and putting in your questions and input and then you next week we'll continue on so have a good week everybody and thank you so much for all you do.
[2022-03-28T15:58:02.032Z]	<Transcriber>	PL: Thank you Carrie and thanks TC.
[2022-03-28T15:58:10.359Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli: Thank you Brandon thank you Dimitri see you everyone.

