<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset='utf-8'>
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="chrome=1">
    <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Droid+Serif" rel="stylesheet">
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheets/styles.css" media="screen">
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../stylesheets/github-light.css" media="screen">
    <script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.12.0.min.js"></script>
    <!--[if lt IE 9]>
    <script src="//html5shiv.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/html5.js"></script>
    <![endif]-->
    <title>Credentials Community Group</title>
    <style>
a {
  color: #06A7CC;
}

div.comment {
  font-family: 'Droid Serif', serif;
  margin-top: 0.5em;
  font-size: 1.25em;
}

.comment-continuation {
  font-family: 'Droid Serif', serif;
  font-size: 1.25em;
  margin-left: 2em;
}
    </style>
  </head>

  <body>
    <div class="wrapper">
      <h1>The W3C Credentials Community Group</h1>
      <h2>Meeting Transcriptions and Audio Recordings (2014-today)</h2>
      <h3><a href="/meetings/">Go Back</a></h3>

      <hr>

<div><div><div class="container"><div class="row"><div class="col-md-8 col-md-offset-2"><h1>Credentials CG Telecon</h1>
<h2>Minutes for 2021-11-30</h2>
<div class="summary">
<dl>
<dt>Agenda</dt><dd><a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Nov/0102.html">https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Nov/0102.html</a></dd>
<dt>Topics</dt><dd><ol><li><a href="#topic-1">Introductions & Reintroductions</a><li><a href="#topic-2">Announcements & Reminders</a><li><a href="#topic-3">Mobile Drivers License: Andrew Hughes</a></ol></dd><dt>Organizer</dt><dd>Wayne Chang, Heather Vescent, Mike Prorock</dd>
<dt>Scribe</dt><dd>Juan Caballero</dd>
<dt>Present</dt><dd><a href="https://celehner.com/">Charles E. Lehner</a>, <a href="http://www.heathervescent.com/">Heather Vescent</a>, <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/mprorock/">Mike Prorock</a>, <a href="https://w3c-ccg.github.io/">TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)</a>, <a href="http://kerrilemoie.net/">Kerri Lemoie</a>, <a href="https://w3c-ccg.github.io/">Chris Abernethy (mesur.io)</a>, <a href="http://www.learningproof.xyz/">Juan Caballero</a>, <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/andrew-hughes-682058a/">Andrew Hughes</a>, <a href="http://manu.sporny.org/about">Manu Sporny</a>, <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeff-orgel-07820464/">Jeff Orgel</a>, <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/marty-reed-b5b2352/">Marty Reed</a>, <a href="https://w3c-ccg.github.io/">rgrant (Ryan Grant)</a>, <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/or13b">Orie Steele</a>, <a href="https://w3c-ccg.github.io/">Phil L (P1)</a>, <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/smagennis/">Steve Magennis</a>, <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/macted/">Ted Thibodeau</a>, <a href="https://w3c-ccg.github.io/">Adrian</a>, <a href="https://identitywoman.net/about-kaliya/bio/">Kaliya Young</a>, <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/bobwyman/">Bob Wyman</a>, <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/kayodeezike/">Kayode Ezike</a>, <a href="https://w3c-ccg.github.io/">Dan</a>, <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/daburnett">Dan Burnett</a>, <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/bzundel/">Brent Zundel</a>, <a href="https://w3c-ccg.github.io/">Christian Gribneau</a></dd>
<dt>Audio Log</dt><dd><div><a href="audio.ogg">audio.ogg</a></div>
<div><audio controls="controls" preload="none">
<source src="audio.ogg" type="audio/ogg" />Warning: Your browser does not support the HTML5 audio element, please upgrade.</audio></div></dd>
</dl>
</div>
<div class="information">Juan Caballero is scribing.</div>
<div class="information">Juan Caballero is scribing.</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-1').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-1').show()" id="1" class="comment"><span class="name">Heather Vescent</span>:  Intro, continuation of 9/28 CCG Call and IIW sessions led by our guest, Andrew Hughes (Ping Identity) <a id="link-1" style="display:none;" href="#1">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">...: one set of questions we didn&apos;t have time for the last time this topic was discussed was the backstory of ISO WG decision-making and timelines</div>
<div class="information">&lt;mprorock&gt; did jitsi break audio in latest chrome?</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-2').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-2').show()" id="2" class="information">S/...:/.../ <a id="link-2" style="display:none;" href="#2">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-3').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-3').show()" id="3" class="comment"><span class="name">Heather Vescent</span>:  Manu sent out an email about VC-mDL vocab recently, and i assume we will have time for that in Q&amp;A without upstaging or stealing time from the main event <a id="link-3" style="display:none;" href="#3">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-4').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-4').show()" id="4" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Sgtm <a id="link-4" style="display:none;" href="#4">✪</a></div>
<div class="information">&lt;manu_sporny&gt; Sounds great, Heather... Andrew, I have some thunder to share, we&apos;ll make a great team :)</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-5').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-5').show()" id="5" class="comment"><span class="name">Heather Vescent</span>:  IPR note <a id="link-5" style="display:none;" href="#5">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... call notes</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... queuing guide for new folks</div>
<div class="information">&lt;mprorock&gt; jitsi audio issue on chrome 96.0.4664.57 beta on linux and/or chromebook fyi - working on .45 on linux</div>
<div class="information">&lt;manu_sporny&gt; /me curses.</div>
<div class="information">&lt;manu_sporny&gt; /me will look into it.</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-6').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-6').show()" id="6" class="comment"><span class="name">Mike Prorock</span>:  Bug report - chrome updates can break jitsi, beware! <a id="link-6" style="display:none;" href="#6">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-7').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-7').show()" id="7" class="comment"><span class="name">Heather Vescent</span>:  Intros &amp; re <a id="link-7" style="display:none;" href="#7">✪</a></div>
<h1 id="topic-1" class="topic">Topic: Introductions &amp; Reintroductions</h1>
<div class="information">&lt;phil_l_(p1)&gt; Other browsers do exist ;-)</div>
<div class="information">&lt;tallted&gt; standalone Jitsi Meet.app FTW!</div>
<div class="information">&lt;andrew_hughes&gt; /me but that can wait :)</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-8').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-8').show()" id="8" class="comment"><span class="name">Heather Vescent</span>:  Announcements and reminders <a id="link-8" style="display:none;" href="#8">✪</a></div>
<h1 id="topic-2" class="topic">Topic: Announcements &amp; Reminders</h1>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-9').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-9').show()" id="9" class="comment"><span class="name">Manu Sporny</span>:  Did-core formal objections: radio silence <a id="link-9" style="display:none;" href="#9">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... since asking for a timeline 80 days ago.  formal objection council met 2 weeks ago but no minutes published yet</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... we will keep pushing for a timeline</div>
<div class="information">&lt;manu_sporny&gt; Weekly updates: <a href="https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Nov/0107.html">https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Nov/0107.html</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... other announcement: weekly updates from VCWG -- published 1.1 of VC data model spec, from hereon in, the CCG will get updated any time there are major changes</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... going forward, every monday there will be a github update email</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... vc-edu and trace-vocab and other groups could also do the same, although it might lead to overload</div>
<div class="information">&lt;orie&gt; you can also just subscribe to github repos... for notifications.</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-10').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-10').show()" id="10" class="comment"><span class="name">Heather Vescent</span>:  Tooling? <a id="link-10" style="display:none;" href="#10">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-11').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-11').show()" id="11" class="comment"><span class="name">Manu Sporny</span>:  It&apos;s a W3C tool <a id="link-11" style="display:none;" href="#11">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-12').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-12').show()" id="12" class="information"><a href="https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-pkh/pull/13/files#diff-b335630551682c19a781afebcf4d07bf978fb1f8ac04c6bf87428ed5106870f5R7">https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-pkh/pull/13/files#diff-b335630551682c19a781afebcf4d07bf978fb1f8ac04c6bf87428ed5106870f5R7</a> <a id="link-12" style="display:none;" href="#12">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-13').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-13').show()" id="13" class="information">Juan.caballero: did-pkh meeting start this week, feel free to come if you&apos;re curious about blockchain PKI and pseudo-did-methods <a id="link-13" style="display:none;" href="#13">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-14').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-14').show()" id="14" class="comment"><span class="name">Heather Vescent</span>:  Question for manu: anything we can do to help with the did-core objection process? <a id="link-14" style="display:none;" href="#14">✪</a></div>
<div class="information">&lt;orie&gt; /me this process seems to kinda not be working...</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-15').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-15').show()" id="15" class="comment"><span class="name">Manu Sporny</span>:  We&apos;ve met with the objectors, taken notes, written them detailed responses... i can&apos;t think of much more CCG members can do, particularly if they&apos;re not W3C members <a id="link-15" style="display:none;" href="#15">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... one thing that W3C members CAN do is ask as well for the timeline</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-16').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-16').show()" id="16" class="comment"><span class="name">Manu Sporny</span>:  Definitely be polite and request timeline for the objection process (explaining that it&apos;s relevant to your organization&apos;s agenda and/or livelihood) <a id="link-16" style="display:none;" href="#16">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-17').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-17').show()" id="17" class="comment"><span class="name">Heather Vescent</span>:  Would it make sense for VCWG to come report to this group some time soon? <a id="link-17" style="display:none;" href="#17">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-18').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-18').show()" id="18" class="comment"><span class="name">Manu Sporny</span>:  I think probably not... <a id="link-18" style="display:none;" href="#18">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... unless people really want an update or have specific questions or issues they&apos;d like to discuss with the whole CCG?</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-19').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-19').show()" id="19" class="comment"><span class="name">Heather Vescent</span>:  Calendar for rest of year: 7dec - vc.edu update (and new cochairs?); 14dec - mprorock session, rest of dec- winter break <a id="link-19" style="display:none;" href="#19">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... anyone running task forces on CCG calendar, feel free to cancel meetings on CCG list and i&apos;ll update the calendar accordingly</div>
<div class="information">&lt;heather_vescent&gt; New proposed work item: <a href="https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/218">https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/218</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-20').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-20').show()" id="20" class="comment"><span class="name">Manu Sporny</span>:  Update on mDL-VC vocab work item proposal <a id="link-20" style="display:none;" href="#20">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-21').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-21').show()" id="21" class="comment"><span class="name">Manu Sporny</span>: <a href="http://w3id.org/vdl/interop-reports">http://w3id.org/vdl/interop-reports</a> <a id="link-21" style="display:none;" href="#21">✪</a></div>
<div class="information">&lt;juancaballero&gt;&#9;manu: convergence discussion has felt a little unmoored so some of us (db, mattr, spruce) worked together to make a strawman and internal interop test to see if a 1:1 mapping of mdl --&gt; VC could work as a LD vocab for VCs</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-22').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-22').show()" id="22" class="information">Adrian: wondering about revocation convo in SMART healthcard discussion? <a id="link-22" style="display:none;" href="#22">✪</a></div>
<div class="information">&lt;manu_sporny&gt; /me bites his tongue. :P</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... lessons to be had there?</div>
<div class="information">&lt;orie&gt; does Smart Health Cards even support revocation?</div>
<div class="information">&lt;orie&gt; I am not sure.</div>
<div class="information">&lt;manu_sporny&gt; /me Not because Adrian&apos;s questions wasn&apos;t good... but because we warned them about the problem and they chose to ignore it.</div>
<h1 id="topic-3" class="topic">Topic: Mobile Drivers License: Andrew Hughes</h1>
<div class="information">&lt;cel&gt; Refresh</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-23').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-23').show()" id="23" class="information">&lt; Screensharing hiccup &gt; <a id="link-23" style="display:none;" href="#23">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-24').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-24').show()" id="24" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>: <a href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xDoDIIQbmbGPjMj_xAFHsT1_RhRigs129hg7CygR8e4/edit?usp=sharing">https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xDoDIIQbmbGPjMj_xAFHsT1_RhRigs129hg7CygR8e4/edit?usp=sharing</a> <a id="link-24" style="display:none;" href="#24">✪</a></div>
<div class="information">&lt;mprorock&gt; permissions issue</div>
<div class="information">&lt;heather_vescent&gt; Thanks Andrew and Manu!</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-25').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-25').show()" id="25" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Shareable version of slides forthcoming for the minutes <a id="link-25" style="display:none;" href="#25">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... and apologies for technical difficulties</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... Long time since CCG, lead of identity standards team at Ping Identity; before that was identity standards lead at Idemia, which specializes in many identity products and flows</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... I am trying to be a clear channel for information on the mDL</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... (within bounds-- I can&apos;t share the specification itself, for example)</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... i won&apos;t go through each slide 1 by 1 (this a longer slidedeck from IIW)</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... and important disclaimer: &#29;I am presenting on my own behalf, not that of my employer&#15;</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... Sept 2021 - 128013-5 (part 5) published, which covers connect, exchange, verify flow over specific set of transports (QR, NFC, BLE, Wifi aware)</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... related standards: ISO 23220 pts 1-5 -&gt;building blocks for mobile eID apps (which 18013-5 relies on... &quot;backfill&quot; order of operations is hard)</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... 18013-6 test methods</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... 18013-7 &quot;day 2&quot; topics - holder/prover authN, &quot;verification without the verifier&quot; (??), verification over the internet</div>
<div class="information">&lt;heather_vescent&gt; Adrian, can we take your question at the end when we have others on the queue?</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-26').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-26').show()" id="26" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Requests and responses (protocol work) <a id="link-26" style="display:none;" href="#26">✪</a></div>
<div class="information">&lt;adrian&gt; sure</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... sidenote: uL presented on this to CCG in detail</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... multiple documents and namespaces allowed in a single request/response</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... but mDL (18013-5) is one such document type and namespace</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... (for the international DLs); AMVA has added an additional namespace for state-level data models/overlays</div>
<div class="information">&lt;heather_vescent&gt; Adrian, can you mute yourself please?</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... s/AMVA/AAMVA/*</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-27').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-27').show()" id="27" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Although there are many private and state-level stakeholders, decision process has largely focused on NATIONAL scale <a id="link-27" style="display:none;" href="#27">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... motivations (IMHO and not my employers&apos;)</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... issuer-centric (i.e. state drivers&apos; bureaus); issuance definition deferred</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... identification document was a secondary consideration, which happened in a later stage of the design after core drivers&apos; licensing use-cases were fleshed out</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-28').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-28').show()" id="28" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Contextualizing the adoption path and likely future of the spec: too issuer-centric to get widespread private sector uptake; not web-native enough to get widespread web uptake; co-existence with more web-native standards like VC seems a realistic hope to hold, imho <a id="link-28" style="display:none;" href="#28">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-29').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-29').show()" id="29" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Random addenda: android working on &quot;identity credential API&quot;; apple actively working on native mDL/mDocs support in Apple Wallet; AAMVA and international corollaries are making swift progress specifying trust frameworks (modelled on ICAO master CA list) for production-ready issuance infra a few years down the road <a id="link-29" style="display:none;" href="#29">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-30').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-30').show()" id="30" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  MDL app scope: data model/data shape sketch <a id="link-30" style="display:none;" href="#30">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-31').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-31').show()" id="31" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Layering diagram <a id="link-31" style="display:none;" href="#31">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-32').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-32').show()" id="32" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Flow overview: 1 device engagement (handshake), 2 data retrieval (verifier scans holder&apos;s QR code with authorized reader hardware) <a id="link-32" style="display:none;" href="#32">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... &quot;reverse engagement&quot; still being discussed in ISO WG</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-33').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-33').show()" id="33" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  MDL flow chart schematic <a id="link-33" style="display:none;" href="#33">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-34').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-34').show()" id="34" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Security goals <a id="link-34" style="display:none;" href="#34">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-35').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-35').show()" id="35" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Data elements: not ideal, there&apos;s some awkward stuff made to keep verifier from having to trust ANY compution on device (nothing like predicates-- data queries flattened into static values) <a id="link-35" style="display:none;" href="#35">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-36').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-36').show()" id="36" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Session data is all in CBOR <a id="link-36" style="display:none;" href="#36">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... it keeps me up at night</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-37').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-37').show()" id="37" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Data integrity - a very hard problem, i hope the vocab work item group can make some progress on this <a id="link-37" style="display:none;" href="#37">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... namely, the Mobile Security Object sent as a whole in all protocols</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-38').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-38').show()" id="38" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Certificates - ICAO <a id="link-38" style="display:none;" href="#38">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-39').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-39').show()" id="39" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  What is not in 18013-5 <a id="link-39" style="display:none;" href="#39">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... scope was limited so that a &quot;day1&quot; could be published, lots of this stuff was left out for this tactic</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-40').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-40').show()" id="40" class="information">Adrian: My question goes back to the very beginning: wallet focus for in-person, but everything else is in day2? could someone like me who participates in W3C or IETF participate in the ISO? <a id="link-40" style="display:none;" href="#40">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... perhaps this is leverage for us to intervene in day 2?</div>
<div class="information">&lt;mprorock&gt; that is honestly totally unrealistic - ISO is where this will stay, and from a US standpoint NIST is the path</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-41').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-41').show()" id="41" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  TBH it&apos;s quite unlikely that the ISO group would take substantial feedback from CCG, or W3C, or anywhere else; front door is ISO via ANSI or your national body <a id="link-41" style="display:none;" href="#41">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... I have no good answer; it is what it is, all I can do is volunteer to relay some signals from outside</div>
<div class="information">&lt;mprorock&gt; Join ISO, or work through NIST - open comms and practical implementable examples, etc</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-42').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-42').show()" id="42" class="comment"><span class="name">Heather Vescent</span>:  Is there a vice-versa? Any way we can send someone to the ISO WG? <a id="link-42" style="display:none;" href="#42">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-43').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-43').show()" id="43" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Invited guests can come to meetings and speak <a id="link-43" style="display:none;" href="#43">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... there are people in the decentralized id/VC world at the table already, i&apos;m hardly the only one</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... I personally look forward to seeing the work put together by DB, Mattr and Spruce, and I think implementable, tested code is the strongest inticement to invite guests</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... The conversation is ongoing with many stakeholders, and all of the member orgs are contributing to expanding the scope and bringing in input from the market and the communities we know</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-44').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-44').show()" id="44" class="comment"><span class="name">Manu Sporny</span>:  Thank you so much for taking the initiative and donating your time here. you mentioned the &quot;MSO&quot; object and how it fits-- i have no easy answer <a id="link-44" style="display:none;" href="#44">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... there are ways to make it work, but it would require cooperation/dialogue with the mDocs implementers</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... which can be quite hard to have from outside the ISO WG and its IPR perimeter</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-45').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-45').show()" id="45" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  Anyone who wants to talk about implementation details, feel free to reach out, those implementers aren&apos;t completely closed off to dialogue, although it might need to be indirect and definitely wouldn&apos;t happen at WG meetings proper <a id="link-45" style="display:none;" href="#45">✪</a></div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-46').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-46').show()" id="46" class="comment"><span class="name">Manu Sporny</span>:  What is the best way for us to engage? What we&apos;ve been doing doesn&apos;t seem to be working <a id="link-46" style="display:none;" href="#46">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... the WG was listed as an official liaison in the VCWG chartering process, and there was essentially no interaction until very recently</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... I would imagine we&apos;re going to continue that activity as much as we can</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... and of course we&apos;ll continue this VC vocab work in the open so that people can engage at least on our side of the conversation</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... and the work-item team, all W3C members, could take the conversation via W3C liaison channels?</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-47').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-47').show()" id="47" class="comment"><span class="name">Andrew Hughes</span>:  ISO works on &quot;paper, in-person meetings, and formality&quot; - liaison officers are the formal channel for these kinds of inputs.  I am such a liaison and there are others as well, I will look into seeing if anyone else wants to be designated for this <a id="link-47" style="display:none;" href="#47">✪</a></div>
<div class="information">&lt;mprorock&gt; @andrew - would love to have that discussion re liaison - can you fire an email to the chairs on that topic?</div>
<div onmouseout="$('#link-48').hide()" onmouseover="$('#link-48').show()" id="48" class="comment"><span class="name">Heather Vescent</span>: +1 Mprorock <a id="link-48" style="display:none;" href="#48">✪</a></div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... a test suite and interop artefacts are always a welcome conversation-starter</div>
<div class="information">&lt;heather_vescent&gt; &quot;we all win together when the specs work together&quot; Love it!</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... when the specs work as broadly as possible and as designed/imagined, this convo is easier to have</div>
<div class="comment-continuation">... and if there are use-cases or formats or transports needed for the mDL to be useful in the world, that&apos;s another good inroad to conversation</div>
<div class="information">&lt;juan_caballero_(spruce)&gt; thanks andrew! great stuff</div>
<div class="information">&lt;kerri_lemoie&gt; Thank you!</div>
<div class="information">&lt;cel&gt; thanks</div>
</div></div></div></div></div>    </div>
  </body>
</html>

