Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-07-18/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-07-18/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2023-07-18

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jul&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Kimberly Linson, Michael Shea, Nis Jespersen , Mike Prorock, Bob 
  Wyman, Hiroyuki Sano, Japan, Wendy Seltzer, Kaliya Young, Eric 
  Vergnaud, Will, Greg Bernstein, James Chartrand, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Steve Magennis, Geun-Hyung, 
  Jeff O - HumanOS, Erica Connell, Sharon Leu, Chandi 
  Cumaranatunge, Limari (DIF), Keith Kowal, Leo, Sandy Aggarwal, 
  Eric Sembrat, Dmitri Zagidulin, BrentZ, Stuart Freeman, John Kuo, 
  Markus Sabadello, Lucy Yang, David I. Lehn, Martin

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Kimberly Linson:  I tried to start the recording did it say 
  didn't I don't think it's did it.
Mike Prorock:  I did morning start but I do see you properly as 
  moderator which is odd.
Kimberly Linson:  Right and I see the subtitles now okay I'm 
  going to stop and start again.
<mprorock> /me once again notes my hatred for jitsi ;)
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> 
Kimberly Linson:  Okay hopefully that will work yes I see the 
  transcriber now okay alright well that was exciting a good little 
  wake up for the beginning of the meeting well welcome everybody 
  I'm really excited to have Claire from diff with us today and so 
  we'll get just do the housekeeping stuff since we wasted a couple 
  of minutes with that little drama so that we can turn the turn 
  the mic over to Claire for.
Kimberly Linson:   Of all I think you know everyone.
Kimberly Linson:  Is that we are we hold these meetings to the 
  highest level of ethics and professional conduct if you are 
  unsure of what that means and what the specifics are then please 
  do click on the link that's located in the agenda so that you can 
  refresh yourself on those anyone is welcome to join these calls 
  and I'm really excited about the turnout today if you are one not 
  getting the agenda which I just.
Kimberly Linson:   I'm looking at right now.
Kimberly Linson:  So many helpful links and it then please 
  subscribe to the ccg so that you can see that information each 
  week when it comes out as well as all the other conversations 
  that happen on the list if you want to be more of a contributor 
  and you really want to be involved in this community than I would 
  also invite you to go ahead and sign the they create a W3 account 
  and sign the IPR agreements.
Kimberly Linson:   It is free to be a member of this community.
Kimberly Linson:  Do a skit those that are really participating 
  and complete those little action steps the links to that are also 
  available in in this agenda we do keep meeting minutes and audio 
  recordings and use the chitty-chat 2q speakers so please if you 
  are interested in have a question for Claire and later on in the 
  conversation you can just use Q Plus to add yourself to the list 
  and that's sort of my job today is to sort of moderate that and 
  make sure that we keep the.
Kimberly Linson:   Recoupment going so now it's.
Kimberly Linson:  One of my favorite parts of the day which is to 
  do introductions and reintroductions do we have anybody who is 
  new to the community or hasn't been here for a while and would 
  like to let us know what they're up to please go ahead and kill 
  yourself and I will call on you.
Michael_Shea: I can play Michael Che I'm been part of the 
  community for a while I usually can't join on Tuesday 7 really 
  have a standing Conflict at this time but today I was able to 
  adjust so I'm here one of the here the diff presentation so glad 
  to be here.
Kimberly Linson:  Great we're certainly glad to have you.
Kimberly Linson:  Welcome the floor is yours.
Eric_Vergnaud: Sorry I didn't unmute hello everybody I'm Erica 
  with the issue University of Arizona State University acting as 
  an engineering manager on the project called pockets and we're 
  doing very viable clip shows on mobile for me is you.
Kimberly Linson:  Great I'm so glad you're here.
Kimberly Linson:  All right how about announcements and 
  reminders.
Kaliya Young:  Hi I just wanted to remind folks that the internet 
  identity Workshop is coming up October 10 to 12 in Mountain View 
  California and I just there are now two hotels actually within 
  walking distance of the museum which is like a new innovation 
  although one of them is very expensive and I haven't figured out 
  how much the other one costs at least it's an option now it's.
Kaliya Young:  It's so it's Mountain View.
Kaliya Young:  And if you are interested in being there we want 
  you there so if money is an issue please reach out thanks.
Kimberly Linson:  Great thanks October in Mountain View is a 
  beautiful time of year.
Kimberly Linson:  And I love the idea of being able to walk I've 
  mapped it a couple of times from my hotel I never been able to 
  make it work.
Kimberly Linson:  Anyone else with announcement through 
  reminders.
Kimberly Linson:  Is there anything that we need to discuss on 
  about work items.
Kimberly Linson:  Well then out without further Ado I am excited 
  to introduce you all to Claire if you don't already know her and 
  let her share with us a little bit about diff and what they've 
  been up to and how we might be able to create some collaborative 
  opportunities and synergies across our communities so Claire are 
  so glad you're here the floor is yours and I'll do my best to 
  moderate questions and.
Kimberly Linson:   Provide any other assistance.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Thank you Kimberly and hello everyone can you 
  hear me and can you see my presentation.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Excellent thank you so again my name is 
  Claire Nelson I am the executive director for the decentralized 
  identity Foundation also known as diff I recognize many of the 
  names present maybe we crossed paths in the past 2018 I was with 
  the w3c verifiable claims working group or perhaps that Del 
  Novell all clear IDs a d g CV n't and previously before diff.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  I was with Amazon web services.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): And the focus today is twofold.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): A diff overview where I will go rather 
  rapidly and save more of the time for an ad if update by now you 
  should have received a copy of this presentation if you have not 
  please let me know make sure that you get one I have paid 
  attention to provide Links at the bottom of some of the slides 
  links inside the slide so this can serve as a reference and 
  speaking of references at the bottom.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  um of.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): A stack at the end there are three pages of 
  references that will help you accelerate your decentralized 
  identity Journey it's a learning experience that never ends so a 
  quick overview of diff.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): The primary scope for diff is of course 
  decentralized identity and that's deeply rooted in dids or 
  decentralized identifiers and verifiable credentials as defined 
  in the w3c recommendations and of course the the model is the 
  issuer holder verifier model now all this is probably very 
  familiar to all of you if it's not I invite you at any time.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): If is glad to hold one-on-one or group 
  sessions Le Mari navarrete is on she is our senior director of 
  community engagement she holds new member orientations and when 
  new members come on board and they're new to decentralize 
  Identity they want to know what's it did they ask basic questions 
  and and then there's there isn't much in the middle and then on 
  the Other Extreme we get questions about well tell me about did 
  method revocation and.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  Trust the systems and that was inspiration 
  for it.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Earlier this year if you're interested in 
  that send me an email and then this slide is a reminder if any of 
  you are fairly new to this topic decentralized identity 
  decentralized digital identity dids are new they might be new to 
  you maybe their old too many many people it's been six years with 
  diff and working on it beforehand but they enable verifiable 
  decentralized digital identity and a did can refer to.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  a person organization a thing.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): A data model abstract entity Etc it's not 
  just a narrow definition definition of identity which some people 
  take with them if they spent a lot of time in the Legacy identity 
  and access management world I'm not denigrating that my roots are 
  there but it's just a call out.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): So what's the diff mission in short we exist 
  to accelerate the adoption of decentralized identity were an 
  engineering driven organization and here you see four blocks and 
  on the left is structured collaboration and we provide 
  intellectual property right protection IPR protection I have a 
  subsequent slide on that topic and that enables members from 
  perhaps.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): To work together and collaborate safely this 
  second block is technical specifications and hear the word 
  specification is purposeful intentional and important we are not 
  an sto diff is not a standards development organization we create 
  specifications profiles Etc and often they are the roots or the 
  foundation for standards but we are very conscious that we are.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Patience reference implementations along with 
  creating the specifications it's very helpful to create software 
  there's this loose term of a software stack which I know is not 
  the best term but people understand it and then there's this 
  notion of tools if you're building a decentralized idea of 
  solution what are all the attendant tools that make it easier to 
  do that and then of course the the last flock is industry 
  coordination I have a.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  lied on that diffe does not work alone we 
  work very closely with.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): So at its root dip is a Linux Foundation 
  project that colors much of who we are and how we exist as a 
  non-profit 501 C 6 the C6 means we serve our members and for the 
  IPR protection there are two basic categories there are more but 
  this will get you started specifications are protected under w3c 
  patent policy and software is.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  is protected under.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): On the right this might be something fairly 
  new to you in May the Linux Foundation announced its digital 
  trust initiative and diff is a founding member of that and you 
  recognize some of the other foundations in here hyper Ledger open 
  Wallet Foundation trust over IP foundation and the goal of this 
  is to make it easier for people to discover or fine or 
  collaborate with these different organizations.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Noted that there were all these gems and it 
  wasn't always apparent to people where to find them or what is 
  offered by these different organizations and there's an entire 
  webpage devoted to this under the Linux foundation and you can 
  see it's at the bottom of this slide.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): So let's move on to add if I update.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): At the heart of diff are the working groups 
  and this is a current snapshot I'll go through and more details 
  some some more about the working groups and what's happening and 
  in the upper right hand corner is a link to the working group 
  creation policy if you were interested in creating a working 
  group or want to know how is it working group governed or managed 
  Etc that's a good link to follow so with these.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  these eight.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Groups you see there are claims and 
  credentials secure data storage did come applied cryptography 
  identifiers and Discovery wallet security side tree and did 
  authentication now just a note did authentication work has been 
  moved to the open ID foundation and many of you are probably 
  familiar with oid see for VP for verifiable presentation or IDC 
  for VC verifiable credentials and that's all work that's going on 
  with the oh.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  open ID Foundation.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Just a few of these insecure data storage 
  there's this notion of Don decentralized web nodes also called D 
  web nodes has many nicknames I have a link at the bottom to 
  Daniel Buckner and what a YouTube recording it was an ask me 
  anything that was hosted and created by Le Mari navarrete and one 
  of our larger Fortune 100.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  members there.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): The entertainment gaming category if you will 
  they were interested and on their way to creating.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Many faults or personal data storage and they 
  saw D WN s decentralized web nodes and are adopting that many of 
  you are probably familiar with did Cam peer-to-peer secure 
  communication and for BBS I'll have more details later.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): So this chart was an attempt to take an 
  inventory of the top 10 and I know it's um I'm missing some so if 
  you're working very hard on number 11 and 12 please don't be 
  offended I really ran out of room on this slide but these are 
  examples of diff contributions and working group focus and 
  realize that some of these items did not originate at.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  instance did Cam came from hi.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): He's and some of these items may have started 
  it diff and then as I mentioned earlier in the case of did 
  authentication that work went to open ID foundation so in the 
  subsequent slide I'll talk about the whole ecosystem but we're 
  aware that as we are working it's really in collaboration and 
  with many contributions from different sources so Universal 
  resolver if anyone knows Marcus sabadell.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  though his name is almost.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): This with universal resolver how do you 
  resolve a did into a did document and there's also a linter 
  program I provided the link how do you want to make sure that the 
  syntax and structure of your did document is conformant with a 
  w3c recommendation for dids side tree that's a protocol it's 
  permissionless and it's blockchain agnostic so it can sit on top 
  of Bitcoin aetherium set.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  Sarah and just as an aside here.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Question I get from especially nude if 
  members well is it possible to implement a decentralized idea 
  solution and not put it on a blockchain and yes for those of you 
  that know did web that's a did method did web is one means for 
  doing just that you can Implement decentralized Energy Solutions 
  that are not sitting on top of digital Ledger's.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  did Cam.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): And that's a contender for the trust over IP 
  trust spanning protocol that's used by and dc04 their Aruba 
  travel solution of course it's used by hyper Ledger Aries a 
  presentation exchange that's a 2.0 now and it's a set of data 
  formats that verifiers verifiers can use to articulate proof 
  requirements.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  while it's.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): This is a place where we collaborate with the 
  open Wallet Foundation diff works on specifications and the open 
  Wallet Foundation does software that's our implicit handshake and 
  agreement and currently the wallet security working group is 
  addressing wallet container back up.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): I mentioned that went to open ID Foundation 
  decentralized web nodes I mentioned earlier there's a link here 
  to the decentralized webnode SDK and in applied cryptography we 
  have some exciting news and updates I have more slides coming up 
  but BBS signatures was presented to ietf back in March and we're 
  up to draft 03 that would it's published on the ITF website just 
  earlier this month and.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  it's used.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Matter and others and I say others because as 
  you know if you work in the world of Open Standards and open 
  source software you don't always know who's using your artifacts 
  Json web proof want to be able to include zero knowledge proofs 
  this was initially proposed and there's a space for development 
  of this work I included a link.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Need trust establishment.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): It's a specification that is being done in 
  collaboration with trust over IP and it's implemented by check T 
  and in d.c. oh we could spend an entire day going over this I 
  provided links and then again I invite you if you want to meet 
  with with me and some of the subject matter experts from diffcult 
  for your interested in contributing to any of these exciting and 
  pioneering activities please let us know.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): So here's just one snapshot of the diff 
  ecosystem and as I said we do not work in isolation we work very 
  closely with many other organizations here of course w3c on the 
  left with the recommendations for dids and VCS you see the ietf 
  this Arrow going from applied cryptography to ietf that 
  represents the BBS is your knowledge proof work.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): And then open idea I mentioned that that was 
  did authentication we work very closely with trust over IP did 
  come is is a contender for the trust spending protocol and their 
  many other conversations we have an ongoing overlapping meetings 
  with trust over IP open Wallet Foundation I mentioned earlier 
  they were they announced in February we were a launch partner 
  with the open Wallet foundation and with Fido we're renewing our.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  nations with Fido they presented at iaw.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Back in 2022 in backup and replication came 
  up so we're starting new conversations to be in sync with Fido.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): So if Mark is sabadell 0 is here and Marcus 
  I'm not sure if you could make it this is his slide you want to 
  make sure that he gave everyone an update on what's going on in 
  the diff identifiers and Discovery working group and and 
  basically you can see these are well designed tools for 
  developers if you're interested in expanding your understanding 
  of decentralized.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  identity and how it works this is a.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Is it at the bottom right in this table of 
  selected work items you see Carrie and it says former Kerry has 
  been archived it's now being managed by Sam Smith and is 
  available in web of Trust website there is a link from the diff 
  website to the carry archive and then side tree has reached its 
  normal life cycle where we're taking a pause on it and this is 
  true of many of the activities that we engage in.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  a specification May.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): On for four decades and decades after a 
  certain period of time maybe months years it's indeterminate but 
  it reaches a graceful reasonable place to pause and people say 
  okay we have this specification will let it rest here and then 
  maybe it'll be picked up in the future but that's the case of 
  side tree.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): And then again here's exciting news with the 
  diff applied cryptography group and on the left hand side is the 
  update from March on the right hand side is the update from July 
  and on the left here you see that Tobias looker and bacillus 
  Kalos presented at ITF in Japan in March and there's a link you 
  go down to the second bullet.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  eat theirs.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): New tube to their presentation and I've noted 
  this in the slide it took a screenshot you need to fast forward 
  to at least 41 minutes into this presentation that's recorded 
  from YouTube and then you can watch I was just thrilled to see 
  this I'm not sure it may not ring your Bell but this was just 
  very exciting to see them present this and then there's a link to 
  the slide deck.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  that's the third bullet here.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): March update and just click on that link and 
  search for the BBS signature scheme and you can download their 
  tremendous deck and then on the right hand side draft 34 BBS 
  signatures is now up on the ITF website and so and then you see 
  this nice chart showing the timeline from July 22 to July 20 23 
  great progress by this group and again there are many links here.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  here so that you can learn and.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): With this I am not a PhD in cryptography I'm 
  only a mere math major but this is truly exciting work.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): And then this is for your edification I'm not 
  going to go through the abstract for BDS signature scheme this is 
  a snapshot from the deck but if you're interested in selective 
  disclosure or privacy-preserving operations that's when you would 
  perhaps Implement BBS signatures.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): And then did calm there's a lot of great work 
  going on with did calm it's a protocol that supports secure 
  private communication many of you are probably familiar with did 
  Cam so what attribute is missing from that statement it's 
  transport agnostic so you can do did Cam over HTTP web sockets 
  Bluetooth chat push notifications that p 2 p and QP SMTP near 
  field communication sneakernet.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  I'll mail you don't even have to have power.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): You can use did Cam and here are some of the 
  examples.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Use cases exchanging the Seas creating and 
  maintaining relationships buying and selling scheduling events 
  negotiating contracts voting presenting tickets for travel 
  applying to employers or schools or Banks ranging Healthcare 
  Playing Games Etc so as you can see the use case are almost 
  endless and if you're interested in learning more about did Cam 
  please let us know there's a lot of exciting work going on there.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  and then the dip half.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Again alomari if you're on still please take 
  a bow she single-handedly managed in ran with the help of others 
  of course the first of many diff hackathons and this was back in 
  June we had presenters from many different companies including 
  trinsic doc a VR Tech TBD TBD is accompanied by the way Danube 
  Spruce ID we had over 50 participants and the winner.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  came up.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Wise personal finance.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Project I'm not sure if it's available now to 
  use but if they won I apologize the wordweb five is on this slide 
  I saw an email earlier please don't use web three this this slide 
  has the word web 5 in it I'll take my lashes with wet spaghetti 
  later on but this is a screenshot from the people that won the 
  hackathon and why are we holding hackathons we get a lot of 
  questions from diffa Members well.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  well I understand.
<mprorock> one persons opinion on using web3 is not reflective of 
  this group or the w3c at large
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): What it did is what if you see is I 
  understand this issuer holder verifier model that how do I build 
  it what do I do and it reminds me of my brother one of my 
  brothers took apart his Camaro and at one point strewn throughout 
  the garage floor where all the piece parts for the engine and if 
  you walked in and didn't know how to put together an engine had 
  never seen an engine you would not know what to do and that's 
  somewhat similar to one of the diff members some of the some of 
  them join us and.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  and they say we'd like to create a descent.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): I said now.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Lucien but we don't know how all the pieces 
  fit together and so the diff hackathons are a tremendous vehicle 
  for this if you're interested in joining forces with us as we 
  create more hackathons moving forward please reach out to me or 
  Le Mari.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): And here's an example use case they ask okay 
  give me a use case and this slide is from someone you may know 
  dr. Suzanne Guff Orlowski and she is using decentralised I'd a 
  solution for the EU digital product passport and here's an 
  example you see and the reminder the private keys and a wallet 
  the public key can go into did document in a public place on a 
  digital.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  Ledger or stored on a server or some.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Handy place for public use you probably 
  smiling because you go of course the private key is stored in the 
  wall or some secure private place but if you're dealing with a 
  lot of especially the nude if members ask these questions.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): And a drum roll please this is our latest Sig 
  in addition to the working groups to have has open groups and 
  many special interest groups and that spans topics from vertical 
  market segments perhaps Healthcare and travel Hospitality Banking 
  and for the Korea Sig this is our newest Sig they have their 
  kickoff meeting tomorrow and the chair is coming true.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  ballpark you may.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Him at IW in April he's a CEO 4K for security 
  and he's collaborating with the ministry of Science and 
  information communication technology to research to centralize 
  Identity he's done a tremendous job of corralling many different 
  parties in Korea for this you see the list of attendees here on 
  the left and we look forward to hearing all about this 
  monumental.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  really truly.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Groundbreaking step in diff history and also 
  for the diff Korea Sig and this is also just a footnote we see 
  pockets of passionate interest from different geographies 
  different verticals different groups it's quite interesting to 
  see how decentralized identity is taking off around the globe.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): And with that I thank you for your time if 
  you want more information please visit the diff website its 
  identity to Foundation or feel free to contact me I'm Claire at 
  identity foundation and with that I'd be more than happy to 
  entertain questions.
Kimberly Linson:  Thank you so much Claire well while folks are 
  joining the queue I'm going to I'm going to ask you you know I 
  loved that pockets of passionate interest that that I think is my 
  experience in this community is that there are we are growing and 
  I think Jeff is growing too by Leaps and Bounds and I think one 
  of the challenges that that I see is trying to help people 
  plugin.
Kimberly Linson:   Because they.
Kimberly Linson:  Are that passionate pocket and yet they don't 
  know they don't know sort of how to how to get that first step of 
  Engagement and I'm just curious if you have any experience or 
  wisdom that you can pass along to sort of how to get new folks.
Kimberly Linson:  Find the right pocket.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): I'll start and and then others can join in 
  because they may have ideas too but as I mentioned earlier when 
  people some of the new members when people approached if some of 
  them are coming and they're at the very basic level we're 
  starting with dids in VCS and we're just describing some of the 
  basics and it's a steep learning curve and that's also why I have 
  three pages of references references at the end of this deck and 
  then.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  others come in and they're quite advanced.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): They may be there was one very large 
  corporation and they were in the midst of ruling out 
  decentralized decentralized identity in an airport and they had 
  questions about scale and so being able to have an on-ramp for 
  the beginner or the advanced practitioner is not easy so and 
  that's why I said I extend an invitation if people want to set up 
  a one-on-one or a small meeting with me and some subject matter 
  experts.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  we offer that we have.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): New member orientations were rolling out more 
  hackathons but and then the Linux Foundation is doing a great job 
  with their digital trust initiative because then that has the 
  website where people can go and learn where that it's basically a 
  matter of finding out what are the specific needs of one of these 
  passionate parties and then connecting them with the right people 
  but thank you Kimberly that's something that we struggle with and 
  we.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): We accept any comments or recommendations.
Kimberly Linson:  Great thank you yeah I definitely there is such 
  energy in this community and I think we can it's all about sort 
  of really trying to figure out how to harness that and I'm just 
  hearing your presentation I was so impressed by the all the work 
  that has been that you all have been doing and the Synergy 
  between the work that we're doing and so I just and and all the 
  folks that you listed on that digital trust slide I was like 
  there's this is this is a really.
Kimberly Linson:   Exciting time to be.
Kimberly Linson:  In this space for sure does anyone else have a 
  question that they want to I'll stop monopolizing the 
  conversation and let someone else Drive jump in.
Kimberly Linson:  All right well oh Martin.
Kimberly Linson:  Did you want to do have a question.
Kimberly Linson:  All right well I'm curious you know to know 
  what you think about the overlap between the open Wallet 
  foundation work and the diff work.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Thank you Kimberly yes I've gotten that 
  question many many times and what I said earlier is that.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): There's a dividing line so to speak an 
  imaginary dividing line where diff focuses on specifications and 
  the open Wallet Foundation focuses on software and of course that 
  involves quite a bit of collaboration and Synergy we work very 
  closely with the open Wallet foundation and it's a it's a place 
  for instance for backup we're working on.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Mechanisms for backing up wallets and that 
  can't be done in isolation it requires some testing some 
  coordination and that's where very close work with open Wallet 
  Foundation is required Daniel Ghost Rider he is the executive 
  director for open Wallet foundation and he extends open 
  invitations all the time they're very easy group to work with and 
  since they're a fellow then.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  this Foundation.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): That makes it even easier thank you for that 
  question.
Kimberly Linson:  So are there ways that you feel like.
Kimberly Linson:  The ccg can be collaborating in new ways that 
  we haven't before or do you feel like that that have you do you 
  have ideas of ways that we can be sharing work I know one of the 
  things that's come to my mind hearing you give the update was you 
  all have created a lot of really great resources for newcomers to 
  this space I actually used used those when I was learning about 
  about this work and so I think.
Kimberly Linson:   Think you know that point.
Kimberly Linson:  Folks from the ccg rather than trying to create 
  our own on ramping I think you know is one way that I'd really 
  like for us to be working together and to be contributing to 
  those as we can but if there are there other things that we can 
  be doing as a community to support the work that you're you're 
  doing.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Yes so start with two things number one is if 
  there is a working group where you you see some interests and 
  want to join forces that's good if you want a deep dive into one 
  particular area that that's something else because I covered a 
  wide range of topics and the one slide with the top 10 
  contributions I think taking a deep dive and finding out where 
  the.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  the edges were the.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): There is a Synergy with ccg that'd be 
  something I'd be willing to explore and then with upcoming 
  hackathons we're always looking for presenters so if someone is 
  interested in being a presenter or even participating in the 
  hackathon that'd be good and we had people from around the globe 
  there was one person from Egypt he was on it for am his time 
  participating in the hackathon I think that for those of you who 
  have who have not been involved.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF):  of hackathons.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Only a little it will revive your interest in 
  coding and learning.
Kimberly Linson:  Do you have plans for for the next one.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): We are working on that right now we have not 
  set any dates yet but stay tuned for updates.
Kimberly Linson:  Okay I'm definitely interested at least to be a 
  to be an active-active Watcher Observer of what's going on so all 
  right anybody let me just check the queue here and see.
Kimberly Linson:  Questions for Clare about diff.
Kimberly Linson:  I'll do my long teacher pause.
Kimberly Linson:  All right well clear it thank you so much for 
  coming and sharing and I definitely agree that you know I was 
  taking some notes about things that I think we could do a deeper 
  dive about and so that I think as we look to the new year and 
  planning we need to come together and have a conversation about 
  what where the where those edges and intersections are best 
  served and how we can also support.
Kimberly Linson:   Support your work and with the heck of.
Kimberly Linson:  I know from my work with the plugfest that that 
  that drive drove my learning forward in a big way so all right 
  exciting stuff I'll give everybody back sometime this afternoon 
  to to maybe grab a bite to eat if you're on the East Coast it's 
  lunchtime I'm starving so thank you so much and we'll look 
  forward to seeing you all next week.
Clare_Nelson_(DIF): Thank you Kimberly thank you everyone.
