Thanks to Ganesh Annan for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-03-10/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2020-03-10

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Mar/0007.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions & Reintroductions
  2. Announcements & Reminders
  3. Progress on Action Items
  4. DIF/W3C agreement in place
  5. ZKP (Cred) Primer with Daniel Hardman
Organizer:
  Joe Andrieu and Christopher Allen and Kim Hamilton Duffy
Scribe:
  Ganesh Annan
Present:
  Sumita Jonak, Chris Winczewski, Adrian Gropper, Joe Andrieu, Amy 
  Guy, Dave Longley, Ganesh Annan, Ryan Grant, Kayode Ezike, Steven 
  Pattison, Brent Zundel, Jon St John, Ken Ebert, Jeff Orgel, Joel 
  Hartshorn, Kaliya Young, Dmitri Zagidulin, Tom S, Nate Otto
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-03-10/audio.ogg

Amy Guy: Regrets+
Prseent+
http://j.mp/37ZIy5B
https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
Jeff Orgel: Unavailable to do soy, apologies...
Ganesh Annan: Kimhd_: yes
Ganesh Annan: I can scribe
Jeff Orgel: Thanks Gannan!
Ganesh Annan is scribing.

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

Jon St John:  Hi, I'm Jon St John from Anonyome Labs
Kimhd_:  Dmitri re you on the call?
Ganesh Annan:  I'm Ganesh. I'm a program manager at Digital 
  Bazaar, I gather requirements and implement VCs and DIDs

Topic: Announcements & Reminders

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
Kimhd_: Just got an email that KNOW Identity has been postponed
  ...RWOT is going to be done virtually
  ...Christopher could you speak to it
Joe Andrieu:  We are not going to do a virtual meeting due to 
  time constraints.
Kimhd_: Thank you.
Adrian Gropper:  I'm trying to see if there is anyone interested 
  to work on an app for pandemic mitigation.
  ... put a link in the chat for people to look at
  ... contact me directly if interested
Kimhd_: KNOW Identity is postponed
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxx-30-2020a-tickets-79016788341
  ... IIW is not cancelled yet
http://www.cvent.com/d/fhqnf3/4W
  ... Identiverse has not been cancelled yet
  ... I am in Seattle and things are crazy around here
  ... how could a developer help?
https://github.com/nextstrain/nextstrain.org/issues/127
  ... the tools that they are using here are things like github
Kaliya Young: Adrian can you re-post the link?
  ... I pasted a link to an issue
  ... they deal with people with how people are able to help
  ... helping out with documentation
  ... if you want to help out please just let me know
  ... you can look at their github directly or email me

Topic: Progress on Action Items

  ... we may not have a lot to talk about here
  ... please add yourself if there is anything you want to report 
  out.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
Kimhd_: Closing out the DVCG...
  ...anyone have anything they want to share on this
  ... I noticed a lot of activity
  ... noticed a lot of website re-directions and github 
  redirections
Orie_: If you have an item in DVCG...
  ... if you want active contribution
  ... please help move it
  ... as soon as we move the repos
  ... the closer we will be to finishing
  ... either mark to archive it or propose where it should be 
  moved
  ... if the group is able to do this we can complete this 
  faster.
Kimhd_: Thank you Orie
Kimhd_: That was it for action items.

Topic: DIF/W3C agreement in place

Kimhd_: Balazs you are next.
Balazs__DIF_: We came to agreement between W3C and DIF...
  ... DIF will be holding the secure data storage WG
  ... our first scoping call will be centered around an update
  ... will be creating the scope around the WG for the call
  ...  everyone who is interested and attended the super friends 
  call - we will do our 3rd one
  ... this will have the legal backing and we are ready to start
Kimhd_: Any questions?
https://foundation.us3.list-manage.com/track/click?u=7d1001f187a746b68d2ea0d28&id=0d2c94018e&e=9a0a9edd2d
  ... did you send out the information about the call on Friday?
Balazs__DIF_: I can send a follow-up.
  ... just also pasted a link to the form that can be used.
Kimhd_: Questions?

Topic: ZKP (Cred) Primer with Daniel Hardman

http://j.mp/37ZIy5B
  ... next is the ZKP Primer by Daniel Hardman
Kimhd_: Over to Daniel Hardman
Joe Andrieu:  Earlier Daniel you established the idea of 
  approximately zero...
  ... isn't the signature approximately 0
Dhh: No it is not 0
Dave Longley:  The term approximately plays a role when the 
  signature value and a super unique name carries the same 
  weight...
Dhh: Slide 24 addresses that a little bit. We can talk about it 
  more when we get there.
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12i_dBRCC864WcipEywz_WFSqvxPUKTA_KBqWzW-Hq2c/edit#slide=id.g6fffce0de9_0_109
Dave Longley:  My other question is ZKP Proof vs. ZKP 
  Arguments...
  ... ZK Snarks are different than ZK Proofs
  ... ZK Proofs gives you computational zero knowledge
  ... if someone has enough computational power then it can be 
  broken
  ... are these not computational bound
Dhh: The distinction that you are making is about the formal 
  definition...
  ... when someone wags their finger they are usually living in 
  formal definition land
  ... the short answer is ZK Snarks and other things like it is 
  what ZKP creds include
  ... I am talking about ZKPs in the informal sense as long as 
  they meet the canonical definition
  ... back to slide 14.
Dave Longley: Seems "it's not a ZKP" is a matter of perspective 
  and that's important to note
Kimhd_: Thank you this is a great overview...
  ... we maybe will be able to have you on for a follow up 
  discussion.
Kimhd_: Thank you everyone!
