[2020-03-10T16:08:21.871Z]	<AnthonyRonning>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:08:29.405Z]	<sumita>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:09:05.002Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:09:27.424Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:09:28.874Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:09:36.205Z]	<rhiaro>	regrets+
[2020-03-10T16:09:37.073Z]	<kimhd_>	prseent+
[2020-03-10T16:09:45.505Z]	<Orie_>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:09:50.872Z]	<kimhd_>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Mar/0007.html
[2020-03-10T16:10:10.706Z]	<dlongley>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:10:14.446Z]	<gannan>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:10:21.333Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:10:56.583Z]	<kimhd_>	http://j.mp/37ZIy5B
[2020-03-10T16:11:24.714Z]	<kimhd_>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-03-10T16:11:33.592Z]	<kimhd_>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-03-10T16:11:44.342Z]	<kezike>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:11:44.512Z]	<kimhd_>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-03-10T16:11:57.132Z]	<kimhd_>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-03-10T16:12:04.741Z]	<SRPattison>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:12:06.021Z]	<brent_>	present+ Brent_Zundel
[2020-03-10T16:12:23.652Z]	<Jon>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:12:28.728Z]	<ken>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:12:50.223Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:13:43.005Z]	<kimhd_>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-03-10T16:13:55.472Z]	<Jon>	present+ Jon St John Anonyome Labs, https://anonyome.com/
[2020-03-10T16:14:08.931Z]	<JeffO-StL>	unavailable to do soy, apologies...
[2020-03-10T16:14:17.739Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: yes
[2020-03-10T16:14:20.257Z]	<gannan>	I can scribe
[2020-03-10T16:14:33.891Z]	<JeffO-StL>	Thanks Gannan!
[2020-03-10T16:14:34.996Z]	<kimhd_>	scribe: gannan
[2020-03-10T16:14:59.322Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2020-03-10T16:15:25.752Z]	<gannan>	Jon: Hi, I'm Jon St John from Anonyome Labs
[2020-03-10T16:15:44.323Z]	<joel>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:16:12.561Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_:  Dmitri re you on the call?
[2020-03-10T16:16:46.952Z]	<kimhd_>	gannan: I'm Ganesh. I'm a program manager at Digital Bazaar, I gather requirements and implement VCs and DIDs
[2020-03-10T16:17:12.413Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2020-03-10T16:17:19.720Z]	<kimhd_>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-03-10T16:17:36.643Z]	<agropper>	q+ to talk about https://weboftrustinfo.discourse.group/t/a-dynamic-digital-passport-for-covid-19-pandemic-mitigation/213
[2020-03-10T16:17:38.874Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: Just got an email that KNOW Identity has been postponed
[2020-03-10T16:17:51.888Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+
[2020-03-10T16:17:59.274Z]	<gannan>	...RWOT is going to be done virtually
[2020-03-10T16:18:05.052Z]	<kimhd_>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-03-10T16:18:09.067Z]	<gannan>	...Christopher could you speak to it
[2020-03-10T16:18:23.055Z]	<gannan>	JoeAndrieu: We are not going to do a virtual meeting due to time constraints.
[2020-03-10T16:18:27.413Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: Thank you.
[2020-03-10T16:18:36.366Z]	<kimhd_>	ack agropper
[2020-03-10T16:18:51.135Z]	<gannan>	agropper: I'm trying to see if there is anyone interested to work on an app for pandemic mitigation.
[2020-03-10T16:19:01.946Z]	<gannan>	... put a link in the chat for people to look at
[2020-03-10T16:19:10.077Z]	<gannan>	... contact me directly if interested
[2020-03-10T16:19:21.881Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: KNOW Identity is postponed
[2020-03-10T16:19:27.261Z]	<kimhd_>	https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxx-30-2020a-tickets-79016788341
[2020-03-10T16:19:29.527Z]	<gannan>	... IIW is not cancelled yet
[2020-03-10T16:19:52.594Z]	<kimhd_>	http://www.cvent.com/d/fhqnf3/4W
[2020-03-10T16:19:57.134Z]	<gannan>	... Identiverse has not been cancelled yet
[2020-03-10T16:20:13.557Z]	<gannan>	... I am in Seattle and things are crazy around here
[2020-03-10T16:20:24.180Z]	<gannan>	... how could a developer help?
[2020-03-10T16:20:42.873Z]	<kimhd_>	https://github.com/nextstrain/nextstrain.org/issues/127
[2020-03-10T16:20:53.766Z]	<gannan>	... the tools that they are using here are things like github
[2020-03-10T16:20:59.293Z]	<identitywoman>	adrian can you re-post the link?
[2020-03-10T16:21:02.583Z]	<gannan>	... I pasted a link to an issue
[2020-03-10T16:21:17.373Z]	<gannan>	... they deal with people with how people are able to help
[2020-03-10T16:21:23.506Z]	<gannan>	... helping out with documentation
[2020-03-10T16:21:23.637Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:21:31.317Z]	<gannan>	... if you want to help out please just let me know
[2020-03-10T16:21:47.023Z]	<gannan>	... you can look at their github directly or email me
[2020-03-10T16:22:04.402Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Progress on Action Items
[2020-03-10T16:22:07.314Z]	<gannan>	... we may not have a lot to talk about here
[2020-03-10T16:22:17.836Z]	<gannan>	... please add yourself if there is anything you want to report out.
[2020-03-10T16:22:18.114Z]	<kimhd_>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-03-10T16:22:31.292Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: Closing out the DVCG...
[2020-03-10T16:22:40.101Z]	<gannan>	...anyone have anything they want to share on this
[2020-03-10T16:22:45.861Z]	<gannan>	... I noticed a lot of activity
[2020-03-10T16:22:51.607Z]	<Orie_>	q+
[2020-03-10T16:22:58.840Z]	<gannan>	... noticed a lot of website re-directions and github redirections
[2020-03-10T16:22:59.976Z]	<kimhd_>	ack Orie_
[2020-03-10T16:23:10.218Z]	<gannan>	Orie_: If you have an item in DVCG...
[2020-03-10T16:23:16.503Z]	<gannan>	... if you want active contribution
[2020-03-10T16:23:22.641Z]	<gannan>	... please help move it
[2020-03-10T16:23:32.275Z]	<gannan>	... as soon as we move the repos
[2020-03-10T16:23:38.127Z]	<gannan>	... the closer we will be to finishing
[2020-03-10T16:23:50.620Z]	<gannan>	... either mark to archive it or propose where it should be moved
[2020-03-10T16:24:05.474Z]	<gannan>	... if the group is able to do this we can complete this faster.
[2020-03-10T16:24:19.322Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: Thank you Orie
[2020-03-10T16:24:28.537Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: That was it for action items.
[2020-03-10T16:24:33.716Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: DIF/W3C agreement in place
[2020-03-10T16:24:38.028Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: Balazs you are next.
[2020-03-10T16:24:53.699Z]	<gannan>	Balazs__DIF_: We came to agreement between W3C and DIF...
[2020-03-10T16:25:11.273Z]	<gannan>	... DIF will be holding the secure data storage WG
[2020-03-10T16:25:24.353Z]	<gannan>	... our first scoping call will be centered around an update
[2020-03-10T16:25:41.973Z]	<gannan>	... will be creating the scope around the WG for the call
[2020-03-10T16:26:06.796Z]	<gannan>	...  everyone who is interested and attended the super friends call - we will do our 3rd one
[2020-03-10T16:26:17.997Z]	<gannan>	... this will have the legal backing and we are ready to start
[2020-03-10T16:26:28.754Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: Any questions?
[2020-03-10T16:26:38.781Z]	<Balazs__DIF_>	https://foundation.us3.list-manage.com/track/click?u=7d1001f187a746b68d2ea0d28&id=0d2c94018e&e=9a0a9edd2d
[2020-03-10T16:26:48.993Z]	<gannan>	... did you send out the information about the call on Friday?
[2020-03-10T16:26:57.436Z]	<gannan>	Balazs__DIF_: I can send a follow-up.
[2020-03-10T16:27:07.996Z]	<gannan>	... just also pasted a link to the form that can be used.
[2020-03-10T16:27:20.397Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: Questions?
[2020-03-10T16:27:28.621Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: ZKP (Cred) Primer with Daniel Hardman
[2020-03-10T16:27:35.555Z]	<kimhd_>	http://j.mp/37ZIy5B
[2020-03-10T16:27:54.455Z]	<gannan>	... next is the ZKP Primer by Daniel Hardman
[2020-03-10T16:28:16.233Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: Over to Daniel Hardman
[2020-03-10T16:29:58.295Z]	<kimhd_>	present+ dhh
[2020-03-10T16:31:22.199Z]	<Tom_S___USAA_>	present+
[2020-03-10T16:48:22.206Z]	<dlongley>	q+
[2020-03-10T16:48:51.532Z]	<gannan>	JoeAndrieu: Earlier Daniel you established the idea of approximately zero...
[2020-03-10T16:48:58.862Z]	<gannan>	... isn't the signature approximately 0
[2020-03-10T16:49:07.040Z]	<kimhd_>	ack dlongley
[2020-03-10T16:49:07.194Z]	<gannan>	dhh: No it is not 0
[2020-03-10T16:49:50.086Z]	<dlongley>	q+
[2020-03-10T16:49:54.093Z]	<gannan>	dlongley: The term approximately plays a role when the signature value and a super unique name carries the same weight...
[2020-03-10T16:50:20.697Z]	<gannan>	dhh: Slide 24 addresses that a little bit. We can talk about it more when we get there.
[2020-03-10T16:50:26.455Z]	<kimhd_>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12i_dBRCC864WcipEywz_WFSqvxPUKTA_KBqWzW-Hq2c/edit#slide=id.g6fffce0de9_0_109
[2020-03-10T16:50:39.275Z]	<gannan>	dlongley: My other question is ZKP Proof vs. ZKP Arguments...
[2020-03-10T16:50:52.226Z]	<gannan>	... ZK Snarks are different than ZK Proofs
[2020-03-10T16:51:03.827Z]	<gannan>	... ZK Proofs gives you computational zero knowledge
[2020-03-10T16:51:27.560Z]	<gannan>	... if someone has enough computational power then it can be broken
[2020-03-10T16:51:56.487Z]	<gannan>	... are these not computational bound
[2020-03-10T16:52:14.839Z]	<gannan>	dhh: The distinction that you are making is about the formal definition...
[2020-03-10T16:52:31.256Z]	<gannan>	... when someone wags their finger they are usually living in formal definition land
[2020-03-10T16:52:33.439Z]	<kimhd_>	q?
[2020-03-10T16:52:35.645Z]	<dlongley>	q-
[2020-03-10T16:52:37.732Z]	<kimhd_>	ack dlongley
[2020-03-10T16:52:52.763Z]	<gannan>	... the short answer is ZK Snarks and other things like it is what ZKP creds include
[2020-03-10T16:53:15.773Z]	<gannan>	... I am talking about ZKPs in the informal sense as long as they meet the canonical definition
[2020-03-10T16:53:36.981Z]	<gannan>	... back to slide 14.
[2020-03-10T16:53:48.638Z]	<dlongley>	seems "it's not a ZKP" is a matter of perspective and that's important to note
[2020-03-10T16:58:18.600Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2020-03-10T17:07:46.593Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: Thank you this is a great overview...
[2020-03-10T17:08:02.914Z]	<gannan>	... we maybe will be able to have you on for a follow up discussion.
[2020-03-10T17:08:09.813Z]	<gannan>	kimhd_: Thank you everyone!
[2020-03-10T17:08:26.174Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
