[2023-11-13T15:55:21.463Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)> agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2023Nov/0001.html

[2023-11-13T15:55:22.463Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	present+
[2023-11-13T15:55:22.464Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	present+
[2023-11-13T15:56:06.253Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	present+
[2023-11-13T15:57:25.333Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2023-11-13T15:59:26.993Z]	<Sheela_Kiiskilä>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:00:35.164Z]	<Dmitri>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:00:45.593Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:00:48.424Z]	<Andy_Griebel>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:00:48.892Z]	<Christoph_Graf_(switch.ch)>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:02:10.779Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-11-13T16:02:10.780Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2023-11-13T16:02:22.868Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:02:23.714Z]	<Keith_Hackett>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:02:56.295Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:03:22.563Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:04:29.155Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:04:34.694Z]	<Eric_Shepherd>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:04:37.328Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Is there anyone speaking right now? Wondering if I have audio issues.
[2023-11-13T16:04:58.768Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	:slightly_smiling_face:
[2023-11-13T16:05:02.334Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	i am also wondering that
[2023-11-13T16:05:24.834Z]	<Jim_Kelly>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:05:25.208Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	(so now Simone is actually speaking, so if you can't hear, try another browser etc)
[2023-11-13T16:05:35.178Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	I can hear him now
[2023-11-13T16:05:51.074Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:05:55.281Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:06:19.702Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:07:15.881Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä: Gina I came in and he had a code to give a presentation on a Pepsi and completely disappeared because it's at 6 p.m. our time on the usually I'm cooking and I forget today I remember to come so I thought I'd say hello.
[2023-11-13T16:07:30.540Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:07:37.172Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:07:41.256Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä: I do try to be got to come for all as many meetings as possible from now.
[2023-11-13T16:08:05.757Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:09:13.693Z]	<Andy_Griebel>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:14:01.758Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2023-11-13T16:14:02.994Z]	<Andy_Griebel>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:15:26.896Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	ack Dmitri_Zagidulin
[2023-11-13T16:15:52.705Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Oh no problem I was curious about what you meant by Seal is it is it a digital signature are you using any of the verifiable credential variance either JWT or debased so I'm just not familiar with this notation thanks.
[2023-11-13T16:16:53.327Z]	<TimG>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:20:03.988Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	q?
[2023-11-13T16:20:17.451Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	@Simone - sadly the transcriber doesn't seem to be hearing Ildiko
[2023-11-13T16:20:28.472Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2023-11-13T16:20:55.625Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thanks what's the difference between proven by and evidence.
[2023-11-13T16:21:00.855Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	ack Dmitri_Zagidulin
[2023-11-13T16:21:43.181Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:22:19.936Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	there might be more info on e-Seal and its use here: https://ec.europa.eu/digital-building-blocks/wikis/display/EBSIDOC/E-signing+and+e-sealing+Verifiable+Credentials+and+Verifiable+Presentations
[2023-11-13T16:22:20.589Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: I see and so and what's so that's an example of supporting information for the claim so what is evidence used for them.
[2023-11-13T16:23:23.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: I think that's very interesting so part of the reason that that I'm asking about evidence is that in the current verifiable credentials 2.0 working group there is an ongoing argument about what exactly is evidence for.
[2023-11-13T16:23:55.014Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: And usually it's used for things that the two properties that your you've shown in has claimed the proven by an influence specifically proven by but the the use case that you're using evidence for linking to I guess that I could have tation artifacts or something that's that's a new usage that we should bring to the.
[2023-11-13T16:23:55.559Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin:  group so as I.
[2023-11-13T16:25:53.095Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	very cool, this is similar to the VC WG's 'renderMethod' proposal
[2023-11-13T16:27:51.466Z]	<TallTed>	ccgbot, pointer?
[2023-11-13T16:29:30.960Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2023-11-13T16:29:40.173Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	ack  Dmitri_Zagidulin
[2023-11-13T16:29:46.915Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thanks I'm feeling self-conscious that I'm the only one asking questions but my question is.
[2023-11-13T16:30:18.771Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Can you tell us a little more about how the ìitís standards are created but I'm noticing a lack of conversation between the yeah itís schemas and either w3c's web control group or the new verifiable credential groups that ITF and so I'm just wondering like to those of us not familiar with the itís format are how how did the specs.
[2023-11-13T16:30:19.192Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin:  I created are there public meeting.
[2023-11-13T16:30:25.392Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Is the repository for the specifications thanks.
[2023-11-13T16:31:00.246Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Wait wait the the question is not about the seals it's more about what's the general process of creating this ei2 specification.
[2023-11-13T16:31:06.177Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: The design makes sense the question makes.
[2023-11-13T16:32:43.987Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32014L0035
[2023-11-13T16:32:56.431Z]	<Rachel_Donahue_(she/they)_-_Digital_Promise>	present+
[2023-11-13T16:33:45.451Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks for sharing that @Ildiko
[2023-11-13T16:34:39.223Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	This is another resource for eIDAS and VC https://ec.europa.eu/futurium/en/system/files/ged/eidas_supported_ssi_may_2019_0.pdf
[2023-11-13T16:35:50.161Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	q?
[2023-11-13T16:35:58.230Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	ack Dmitri_Zagidulin
[2023-11-13T16:36:51.059Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	https://www.eciu.eu/
[2023-11-13T16:36:58.873Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä: I'm not sure I'm the person who was supposed to be on the spot but from a CIO University we are at a university and another partner they do FC and that's what the presentation we gave last year we also did an early adapter program with European digital credentials and if you ask for a Venn diagram I would.
[2023-11-13T16:37:24.385Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	https://europa.eu/europass/elm-browser/index.html
[2023-11-13T16:37:29.909Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä: Data model is the common part in both of them both of them use the same data model so it's easy to think about interoperability but when it comes to the other Technologies like blockchain versus this and we even when we were doing the FC early adopter program on the first feedback we sent out to them is that for our diplomats this might work but if we are issuing Mike.
[2023-11-13T16:38:00.859Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä: Um you know verifiable credentials for short learning experiences or things like that this won't work because every time expecting the student to request a credential is not going to work students forget and at the end of it when they needed they will remember and it is it's just not the minute they finish just traditionally everybody got used to when they finish something they get the credential to into their hands.
[2023-11-13T16:38:01.174Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä:  whether it's.
[2023-11-13T16:38:33.417Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä: It's a PDF whether it's an email or anything so I think that that model works and it has to be that so till that changes at least four micro credentials if C is going to be a harder sell and also there were other issues as well I actually wrote a paper on this on a PC and Adoption of a Pepsi one of the things is because it requires a node every every if.
[2023-11-13T16:38:33.804Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä:  is institution that's.
[2023-11-13T16:39:06.990Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä: To use it they needs to be a or at least they're recommended to have a node within that country because you do need multiple notes to work in the blockchain which requires it basically a national strategy to to install a node and maintain the node and there are GDP are issues you have to take care of at the node itself as well so it is a it is a university or institution cannot.
[2023-11-13T16:39:07.465Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä:  not just decide saying okay I'm going to use Ipsy it.
[2023-11-13T16:39:33.080Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä: More planning and a lot more entities involved before it can happen but with the European digital credentials you know it's it's it's a platform we are all very familiar with the platforms and right now you see I University decided to use European digital credentials and it is a platform to issue micro credentials.
[2023-11-13T16:40:56.997Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä: You're definitely different different use cases for both of them for like I said for diplomas you know students might not mind requesting for it but for micro credentials it would be hard to sell.
[2023-11-13T16:41:06.707Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2023-11-13T16:41:33.721Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/european-commission-empl/European-Learning-Model/blob/master/rdf/ap/edc/documentation/EDC-generic-no-cv.html
[2023-11-13T16:42:15.016Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	ack Dmitri_Zagidulin
[2023-11-13T16:42:22.817Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thanks Sam my question is for ildiko about the.
[2023-11-13T16:42:34.886Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Micro credentials and students requesting them what about the push workflow that the.
[2023-11-13T16:42:53.426Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Either email notifications or the credentials themselves would automatically be sent to students at the end of the class I guess my question is why the emphasis on the pole method students requesting and not just hey the credentials are available to them.
[2023-11-13T16:43:42.136Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	q?
[2023-11-13T16:44:09.775Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Make sense so why doesn't that apply to my credentials.
[2023-11-13T16:46:34.077Z]	<Sheela_Kiiskilä>	Espciallly all higher education institutions will be interested in using accreditation. Most of the European universities already are in DEQAR.
[2023-11-13T16:47:24.306Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	https://www.eqar.eu/
[2023-11-13T16:47:44.045Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	https://www.eqar.eu/qa-results/search/
[2023-11-13T16:48:21.734Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä: So every as far as I know most of the European universities are part of this egg they car or a car the car is database of a car every country has the quality assurance education Ministry that goes through all the universities within the within the country and assess the quality and everything and then they submit this report to.
[2023-11-13T16:48:22.691Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä:  to the acre.
[2023-11-13T16:48:28.971Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	FYI, currently there are 92 034 reports available on 3 856 institutions in the DEQAR database.
[2023-11-13T16:48:53.556Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä: Make sure that you know all the universities within a country or following the European quality standards this year I actually happen to be one of the people giving the review for our own University for the for the country and I was asking them how long does it take to get this report to a car and they said they are going to combine all the universities and it takes about 3 months to send it to a car and I already see that it's updated.
[2023-11-13T16:48:54.061Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä:  because our.
[2023-11-13T16:49:06.702Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	DEQAR piloted using VC  - https://www.eqar.eu/launch-of-verifiable-credentials-in-deqar/
[2023-11-13T16:49:26.461Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä: Two universities got combined into one before last year both of them were there separately and I was getting worried that when we issue micro credentials I need that to be one University so that you know we can use from Dakar directly into the micro credential and that's a that's every two years or every three years every country goes through this quality assurance process and then make sure that it are.
[2023-11-13T16:49:26.551Z]	<Transcriber>	Sheela_Kiiskilä:  those the European standards.
[2023-11-13T16:50:33.597Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	q?
[2023-11-13T16:51:27.278Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	Indeed.
[2023-11-13T16:51:29.550Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Co-Chair)>	q?
[2023-11-13T16:51:59.804Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	Which is why this forum is so crucial, and I feel honoured to have been given so much time, space and attention to give a little insight.
[2023-11-13T16:52:18.623Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	thank you so much, Ildiko!
[2023-11-13T16:52:43.244Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	It's been a great pleasure.
[2023-11-13T16:53:11.473Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Sure for will thank you thank you so much for giving summary of the topic so yeah the tldr we're going to be holding elections shortly so we're going to be doing a call on the mailing list for nominations for candidates who want to be a CO chair too.
[2023-11-13T16:53:11.774Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin:  tell us about.
[2023-11-13T16:53:32.191Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Men will hold a rank dress election that's it so start thinking about it so I'm thinking we want to nominate if you're interested in being a co-chair please reach out to us on the list or directly through email and we'll walk you through the process thanks.
[2023-11-13T16:53:53.665Z]	<Ildiko_Mazar>	<3
[2023-11-13T16:53:54.881Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks all!
[2023-11-13T16:54:01.232Z]	<Sheela_Kiiskilä>	thank you
[2023-11-13T16:54:02.804Z]	<cel>	👏
