Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Benjamin Collins for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-12-12-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-12-12-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-12-12

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Dec&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Benjamin Collins
Present:
  Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Nis Jespersen , Benjamin Collins, Patrick 
  St-Louis, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Ted 
  Thibodeau, Russell H (mesur.io), Orie Steele

<mahmoud> can you guys hear me?
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Benjamin Collins is scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Point of order, we're going to have a 2pm 
  cut off. We will need to switch to a new timeslot in the new 
  year. Before we get started into the meeting, do we want to talk 
  about timeslots in the new year?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Both myself and Nis have hard conflicts half 
  an hour into this call.
Nis Jespersen :  My conflict got pushed back an hour
:+1:
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We can move the time up by 30 minutes
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Who can modify the calendar? How do we get 
  that modified?
Ted Thibodeau:  You need permissions on the calendar, I know that 
  ccg chairs can do it, so it would be worth poking them.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'll send an email to the ccg chairs to 
  either move it or get permission to move it.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Patrick you wanted to talk about your 
  interop work.
Nis Jespersen :  I also want to make time for the timeline in the 
  new year
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We'll split the meeting into two ten 
  minutes. Otherwise we'll do the technical talk in the first 
  meeting of the new year.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
Patrick St-Louis:  I was approached by the BC government to get 
  some indepent work from the BC. They are pioneers in digital 
  identify. We want to do it in relation to their energy and mines 
  program. This would be using the DHS traceability work. I am 
  tasked to build an API to bridge between the trace-api and 
  apkapi(?). I had a go at runnign the test suite, and I need to 
  get around some of the issuance on the akapi (?) . For did:web 
  I'm working with a plugin used to sign credentials. My specific 
  question is around the state of the document and the tests. Some 
  of th examples were giving 404 and some of the collections were 
  not in there. What is the state is it fully stable or still in 
  development?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That seems like it seems to transition into 
  our roadmap conversation
Patrick St-Louis:  I'm not sure if there was a concrete question, 
  and after that there seems to be a process to join the 
  interopability matrix.
Nis Jespersen : :+1:
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We would recommend with how you can get 
  started with the test suite to get yourself included into the 
  matrix which is running the suite locally against everyone else. 
  My suggestion would be to go through that process. The ideal is 
  that being added to the matrix should be reasonably straight 
  forward.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  All you would need to do is provide client 
  credentials and end point information and that way everything 
  should work out.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/blob/main/environment-setup/README.md
Patrick St-Louis:  Before I do that I want to make sure that I 
  have full coverage, so I want to make sure that everything is 
  working locally. And I'm aware of what's public and what's not 
  made public.
Nis Jespersen :  You mention that some of the collections are not 
  working.
<orie> please file issues or open a PR :)
Patrick St-Louis:  It's not that they're not working. Three of 
  them the folder doesn't exist any more.
Nis Jespersen :  I recommend looking at what's being run. And if 
  you run into any issue, open an issue so we can address them.
Patrick St-Louis:  Definitely, I think it's just in the readme.
Orie Steele: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1379
Orie Steele:  Overall we have a mission to test SD-JWT verifiable 
  credentials and status list 2021 and we want to have tests for 
  those components and have multiple vendors passing those tests. 
  Currently we have status list 202 and data integrates proofs and 
  there are challenges to what we have now and where we want to go. 
  And the first thing to chat about about is traceable 
  presentations with SD-JWT.
Orie Steele:  This is a pull request in the technical 
  recommendation and this would need to be merged for us to go 
  forward with that. So if you haven't approved or commented on 
  this PR, i want to know what your thoughts are.
Orie Steele:  We need something like this or you cant make a 
  verifiable presentation with SD-JWT because the security models 
  are different between the two.
Patrick St-Louis:  I see a comment about the data model being 
  used. And I see this is an issue with version 1.1 of the data 
  model?
Orie Steele:  Before we had discussed that maybe we don't want to 
  switch to version 2, but the way i'm reading this we MUST use the 
  v2 context to give it meaning.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  For the presentation itself?
Orie Steele:  Yes, for us to make presentations.
Patrrick: So you could have a v2 presentation containing v1 
  credentials?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Supposedly?
Orie Steele:  I guess the other piece of this is that we dont 
  want to update all of the credentials to version , but if we need 
  to do that for presentations, does that change anything?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We could take the approach that only 
  presentations need to be v2 to allow people to migrate with the 
  lowest amount of friction.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We're going to need to support both 1.1 and 
  2 in most cases unless you don't care about backwards 
  compatibility. But I think that we should decouple these two 
  issues as far as presentations and credentials.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Is there any issue with having presentations 
  be v2 and credentials be v1?
Patrick St-Louis:  Would that affect normal issuance or 
  verification?
Orie Steele:  It will affect what we choose to write tests for, 
  and it would change all of the presentation related API
Orie Steele:  And it would also affect the issuance which would 
  need SD-JWT
Patrick St-Louis:  Why label it VC-API, why was that included in 
  the title of the collection? Why would the implementation for JWT 
  affect the test for the normal credential?
Orie Steele:  That collection for JWT is ancient and we'll likely 
  remove that. And that's going to make everything confusing as 
  people start looking for JWT.
Nis Jespersen :  It's also not in the interop report.
Orie Steele:  THese are a collection of API's and data models and 
  previously there was alignment with another work item called the 
  VC-API, but there is less alignment now.
Orie Steele:  There's a set of APIs that we're testing 
  conformance for and unless their exchange API's, there just end 
  points that vendors are deciding to implement similarly. So we 
  have internal issuance and verification and then there are cross 
  trust domain to support presentations and all of them will need 
  to be updated.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/611
Patrick St-Louis:  THere is the VC-API spec, but everything lives 
  on its on service. Other end points are meant to be publicly 
  interactable or outside of the trust domain, And there is an 
  issue around the coordinator which has a lot of issue. And there 
  is talk about organization of organizing the documentation.
Orie Steele:  I don't know how other people feel about this, and 
  we've had tests for internal end points and I don't think it's 
  done a lot for us and I would like to see more emphasis on 
  interoperable exchange end points.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  The statement that I would like to make is: 
  presentations v2, v1.1 for credentials. Are there any negative 
  reactions to that statement?
Patrick St-Louis:  My work is to be done by the end of January? 
  What sort of time frame do you see this is implemented?
Orie Steele:  I think it will take quite some time, we've been 
  talking about this for a year, it's a long process.
Patrick St-Louis:  For the matrix, are there more in the wild?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'm aware of two more implements.
Patrick St-Louis:  Would you define this as a breaking change?
Mahmoud,Orie: Yes
Patrick St-Louis:  So it's not just a change, but some will 
  break?
Orie Steele:  We're not planning support for the older interface, 
  we're only interested in the exchange end point
Patrick St-Louis:  Like the issuance end point?
Orie Steele:  Yes, [we will not plan support for those]. It's 
  expensive to maintain them.
Patrick St-Louis:  It might help new comers have some end points 
  to start around. i think it depends on the maturity of the 
  implementor.
