[2023-12-12T18:29:30.213Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2023-12-12T18:30:13.882Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-12-12T18:30:28.879Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-12-12T18:31:40.669Z]	<Mahmoud>	can you guys hear me?
[2023-12-12T18:31:53.218Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2023-12-12T18:32:09.818Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-12-12T18:32:22.368Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2023-12-12T18:32:33.146Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2023-12-12T18:32:43.387Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-12-12T18:33:49.082Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-12-12T18:34:56.127Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-12-12T18:34:56.127Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-12-12T18:35:47.250Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe+
[2023-12-12T18:36:24.609Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Point of order, we're going to have a 2pm cut off. We will need to switch to a new timeslot in the new year. Before we get started into the meeting, do we want to talk about timeslots in the new year?
[2023-12-12T18:36:46.386Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Both myself and Nis have hard conflicts half an hour into this call.
[2023-12-12T18:37:14.513Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: My conflict got pushed back an hour
[2023-12-12T18:37:18.648Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	:+1:
[2023-12-12T18:37:34.575Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: We can move the time up by 30 minutes
[2023-12-12T18:37:56.031Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Who can modify the calendar? How do we get that modified?
[2023-12-12T18:38:13.527Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ted: You need permissions on the calendar, I know that ccg chairs can do it, so it would be worth poking them.
[2023-12-12T18:38:30.059Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I'll send an email to the ccg chairs to either move it or get permission to move it.
[2023-12-12T18:38:51.476Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Patrick you wanted to talk about your interop work.
[2023-12-12T18:39:02.256Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I also want to make time for the timeline in the new year
[2023-12-12T18:39:38.387Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: We'll split the meeting into two ten minutes. Otherwise we'll do the technical talk in the first meeting of the new year.
[2023-12-12T18:42:12.062Z]	<nis>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
[2023-12-12T18:42:22.803Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: I was approached by the BC government to get some indepent work from the BC. They are pioneers in digital identify. We want to do it in relation to their energy and mines program. This would be using the DHS traceability work. I am tasked to build an API to bridge between the trace-api and apkapi(?). I had a go at runnign the test suite, and I need to get around some of the issuance on the akapi (?) . For did:web I'm working with a plugin used to sign credentials. My specific question is around the state of the document and the tests. Some of th examples were giving 404 and some of the collections were not in there. What is the state is it fully stable or still in development?
[2023-12-12T18:42:39.970Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: That seems like it seems to transition into our roadmap conversation
[2023-12-12T18:43:28.959Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: I'm not sure if there was a concrete question, and after that there seems to be a process to join the interopability matrix.
[2023-12-12T18:44:25.068Z]	<nis>	:+1:
[2023-12-12T18:44:50.246Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: We would recommend with how you can get started with the test suite to get yourself included into the matrix which is running the suite locally against everyone else. My suggestion would be to go through that process. The ideal is that being added to the matrix should be reasonably straight forward.
[2023-12-12T18:45:13.721Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: All you would need to do is provide client credentials and end point information and that way everything should work out.
[2023-12-12T18:45:19.376Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/blob/main/environment-setup/README.md
[2023-12-12T18:46:17.607Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: Before I do that I want to make sure that I have full coverage, so I want to make sure that everything is working locally. And I'm aware of what's public and what's not made public.
[2023-12-12T18:46:33.858Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: You mention that some of the collections are not working.
[2023-12-12T18:46:54.510Z]	<Orie>	please file issues or open a PR :)
[2023-12-12T18:46:55.746Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: It's not that they're not working. Three of them the folder doesn't exist any more.
[2023-12-12T18:47:26.888Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I recommend looking at what's being run. And if you run into any issue, open an issue so we can address them.
[2023-12-12T18:47:43.912Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: Definitely, I think it's just in the readme.
[2023-12-12T18:49:19.708Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1379
[2023-12-12T18:49:23.120Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Overall we have a mission to test SD-JWT verifiable credentials and status list 2021 and we want to have tests for those components and have multiple vendors passing those tests. Currently we have status list 202 and data integrates proofs and there are challenges to what we have now and where we want to go. And the first thing to chat about about is traceable presentations with SD-JWT.
[2023-12-12T18:50:21.533Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: This is a pull request in the technical recommendation and this would need to be merged for us to go forward with that. So if you haven't approved or commented on this PR, i want to know what your thoughts are.
[2023-12-12T18:50:46.636Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: We need something like this or you cant make a verifiable presentation with SD-JWT because the security models are different between the two.
[2023-12-12T18:51:08.233Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: I see a comment about the data model being used. And I see this is an issue with version 1.1 of the data model?
[2023-12-12T18:51:39.028Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Before we had discussed that maybe we don't want to switch to version 2, but the way i'm reading this we MUST use the v2 context to give it meaning.
[2023-12-12T18:51:51.542Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: for the presentation itself?
[2023-12-12T18:52:04.779Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Yes, for us to make presentations.
[2023-12-12T18:52:19.699Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrrick: So you could have a v2 presentation containing v1 credentials?
[2023-12-12T18:52:23.741Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Supposedly?
[2023-12-12T18:52:53.688Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I guess the other piece of this is that we dont want to update all of the credentials to version , but if we need to do that for presentations, does that change anything?
[2023-12-12T18:53:31.336Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: We could take the approach that only presentations need to be v2 to allow people to migrate with the lowest amount of friction.
[2023-12-12T18:54:25.807Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: We're going to need to support both 1.1 and 2 in most cases unless you don't care about backwards compatibility. But I think that we should decouple these two issues as far as presentations and credentials.
[2023-12-12T18:54:46.572Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Is there any issue with having presentations be v2 and credentials be v1?
[2023-12-12T18:55:05.322Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: Would that affect normal issuance or verification?
[2023-12-12T18:55:25.183Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: It will affect what we choose to write tests for, and it would change all of the presentation related API
[2023-12-12T18:55:52.884Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: And it would also affect the issuance which would need SD-JWT
[2023-12-12T18:56:30.183Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: Why label it VC-API, why was that included in the title of the collection? Why would the implementation for JWT affect the test for the normal credential?
[2023-12-12T18:57:00.830Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: That collection for JWT is ancient and we'll likely remove that. And that's going to make everything confusing as people start looking for JWT.
[2023-12-12T18:57:10.898Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: It's also not in the interop report.
[2023-12-12T18:57:52.003Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: THese are a collection of API's and data models and previously there was alignment with another work item called the VC-API, but there is less alignment now.
[2023-12-12T18:59:19.967Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: There's a set of APIs that we're testing conformance for and unless their exchange API's, there just end points that vendors are deciding to implement similarly. So we have internal issuance and verification and then there are cross trust domain to support presentations and all of them will need to be updated.
[2023-12-12T19:00:04.352Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/611
[2023-12-12T19:00:27.789Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: THere is the VC-API spec, but everything lives on its on service. Other end points are meant to be publicly interactable or outside of the trust domain, And there is an issue around the coordinator which has a lot of issue. And there is talk about organization of organizing the documentation.
[2023-12-12T19:01:21.298Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I don't know how other people feel about this, and we've had tests for internal end points and I don't think it's done a lot for us and I would like to see more emphasis on interoperable exchange end points.
[2023-12-12T19:01:58.964Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: The statement that I would like to make is: presentations v2, v1.1 for credentials. Are there any negative reactions to that statement?
[2023-12-12T19:02:22.301Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: My work is to be done by the end of January? What sort of time frame do you see this is implemented?
[2023-12-12T19:02:47.590Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think it will take quite some time, we've been talking about this for a year, it's a long process.
[2023-12-12T19:03:01.494Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: For the matrix, are there more in the wild?
[2023-12-12T19:03:11.007Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I'm aware of two more implements.
[2023-12-12T19:03:21.399Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: Would you define this as a breaking change?
[2023-12-12T19:03:27.123Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud,Orie: Yes
[2023-12-12T19:03:43.788Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: So it's not just a change, but some will break?
[2023-12-12T19:04:11.381Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: We're not planning support for the older interface, we're only interested in the exchange end point
[2023-12-12T19:04:22.929Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: Like the issuance end point?
[2023-12-12T19:04:49.488Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Yes, [we will not plan support for those]. It's expensive to maintain them.
[2023-12-12T19:05:18.919Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Patrick: It might help new comers have some end points to start around. i think it depends on the maturity of the implementor.
