Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-01-16/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-01-16/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-01-16.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2024-01-16

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jan&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Harrison Tang, Chandi Cumaranatunge, Kimberly Linson, Jing Chao, 
  Wendy Seltzer, Bob Wyman, Nis Jespersen , Gregory Natran, Brandi 
  Delancey, Will, Mike Xu, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), Dmitri Zagidulin, Phil Long, Erica Connell, 
  Rashmi Siravara, Leo, Kaliya Young, Adrian Gropper, Andres Uribe, 
  Jeff O / HumanOS

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Kimberly Linson:  Hearing from all of you.
Kimberly Linson:  Uh but let me.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: Issues give me a second.
Harrison_Tang: It says the recording service is currently 
  unavailable.
Harrison_Tang:  first time.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: I think the subtitle still works.
Kimberly Linson:  Yeah it does seem to be transcribing.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: Now it says that it's currently unavailable so 
  I'll just I'll just do the transcriber and then uh go from there.
Harrison_Tang: Hi Kimberly you can start you know.
Kimberly Linson:  Yeah yeah okay I'm sorry I was I was watching 
  the transcriber.
Kimberly Linson:  Uh okay well hello everyone um welcome to to 
  today's meeting um which as I just said a couple of minutes ago 
  is is really an open agenda for us to talk about um the work 
  being done to be asking questions about um how your work might 
  fit with that work uh indefinitely maybe most importantly to 
  think about the kinds of things that we want to uh address and 
  look at in in 2024.
Kimberly Linson:  Um so I'm very excited um to lead that 
  discussion uh and look forward to really hearing from from all of 
  you.
Kimberly Linson:  Uh since this is uh uh an open meeting it's 
  maybe even more important than usual for us to to remind 
  ourselves of our professional code of of conduct and how we um 
  are all striving towards the same goals um we're all trying to 
  make this technology better and useful for for um.
Kimberly Linson:   For the.
Kimberly Linson:  World so uh be keeping that in mind as you may 
  differ in the approach um but that the the goal is the same.
Kimberly Linson:  Do have uh an IP note so um remember that 
  everyone is welcome to participate in these calls we are a 
  community group and we want to be the largest community um 
  focused on credentials um and really bringing in as many voices 
  to that Community as we can um but if you are wanting to 
  participate more formally than I would really invite you to make 
  sure that you have a w3c account and that you have signed the 
  community contributor license both of the links to that are in 
  the agenda for today.
Kimberly Linson:  Um we do keep uh call notes in minutes usually 
  we record an audio uh trans uh trans audio version of this call 
  uh but we do not for some reason have that available to us today 
  um but you can see uh if you open the chat that we are 
  transcribing this call and that will serve as a record that this 
  call happened and be saved in in our minutes.
Kimberly Linson:  If you want to participate in the call which I 
  hope that all of you will do today um I would invite you to use Q 
  Plus to put yourself on the Queue um that's going to be my job 
  today is to kind of moderate this discussion and make sure that 
  that everyone is getting a turn to speak um.
Kimberly Linson:  Potentially if I don't get enough I will be 
  calling on you to speak uh uh so be thinking about how you might 
  uh.
Kimberly Linson:  And where you might want to to contribute to 
  the call today.
Kimberly Linson:  Uh and then uh this is uh now actually is a a 
  great time for us to talk about uh or to in to welcome anyone who 
  is new to the community or hasn't been here for a while um and 
  wanted to to join today um I'm looking down the list and I don't 
  know that I see any unfamiliar faces but um please put yourself 
  on the Queue if you would like to just uh take a moment to to say 
  hello.
Kimberly Linson:  Okay uh well how about uh announcements and 
  reminders anything happening in the larger credentials community 
  that you want to make sure to bring uh this group's attention to.
Kimberly Linson:  Well then I think we are to the the um main 
  agenda um and ready to to kind of talk about what's happening um 
  and what we're working on.
Kimberly Linson:  Um do I have anybody um here who is um a key 
  contributor on any 1 of the current work items that wants to 
  share where where you're at in the status of that.
Kimberly Linson:  All right well um let me call uh on uh Demetri 
  do you mind if I call on you to talk a little bit about.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  For those of you who are not familiar uh VC 
  edu is.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So if I have a credentials in education task 
  force so it's a part of the ccg uh but we have um a separate set 
  of calls uh and speaking of which we we also have a different 
  co-chairs and we're holding an election uh right now so if for 
  some reason you're into verify the credentials and education and 
  you're not part of that task force and you're interested in 
  becoming a co-chair let us know uh because we're taking 
  nominations now uh the existing uh chairs are myself and uh and 
  Simone and we're looking for a third.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Um uh Simon ravali uh.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So over over the past year uh we've had a 
  number of uh Pilots so various universities and and vendors uh 
  deploying verifiable credentials in education so our calls have 
  been a mix of.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh presentations about topics the pilots run 
  into such as.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Internationalization rendering or uh 
  displaying credentials uh.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Various uh education specific.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh credential types such as open badges 
  version 3 so that sort of thing and this this coming year is uh 
  slated to do similar so we've got um we'll have uh report outs 
  and demos of the open source software uh that was created in this 
  field uh open wallets issuers and verifiers.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh that are being used in the field of 
  Education um more conversations about uh displaying credentials 
  and specifically printing them to PDF uh since that's 1 of the 
  key sort of use cases that we've uh We've noticed in sharing.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah so I'll I'll start there uh let me know 
  if there's uh any questions.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And and uh 1 1 1 of the thing before uh before 
  I pause for questions is uh 1 of 1 of our goals for this year is 
  to uh continue expanding our libraries of example credentials so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  How would you express a diploma now.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Many of you probably uh familiar with the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Fact that even necessarily stage in fact fiber 
  credentials uh various jurisdictions and various sort of sub 
  communities have are establishing uh their own similar standards 
  for example the European Union has a um in progress 
  specifications of this is how we're going to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Express diplomas and then um 1 Ed Tech and the 
  open badges version 3 specification has a different way to 
  express diplomas and then our colleagues in Japan have yet a 
  third way so 1 of the things that we're hoping to do in VC edu is 
  first to document the for example the the different diploma 
  schemas and then uh possibly to propose and unify uh or at least 
  better yet provide translation and mapping suggestions of here's 
  how you can go from the fields of lawn to the fields of the other 
  uh any questions also.
Kimberly Linson:  That is really exciting um and I know I'm 
  working on a number of of credentials in different spaces um you 
  know an expression of the CLR for high impact practices um and in 
  a Community College Community College setting So when you say 
  that you're you're wanting to collect credentials.
Kimberly Linson:  Like ha ha how would we how would we.
Kimberly Linson:  Yeah how do we get those to you like how how 
  would we how would I do that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah absolutely that's exactly that's exactly 
  the kind of stuff we want yeah so we're thinking yeah um so so 
  we're thinking combination of uh we'll have a GitHub repository 
  of these examples uh that you can make PRS to for those that 
  don't want to mess with GitHub uh you can email the chairs 
  directly and I'm thinking it might make sense to do an editable 
  doc like a Google doc or something like that that people can 
  paste uh examples to but yeah we'll start with GitHub and email.
Kimberly Linson:  And then the the when you're talking about 
  credential display and.
Kimberly Linson:  And using um you know being able to to render 
  it as a PDF is that work that's being done by the the work item 
  that the rendering work item.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yes yes that that's exactly it right so which 
  is I again uh lots of stuff being incubated in the ccg uh that's 
  relevant to us so there is a uh render method work item uh that 
  we're using oh and the other thing that I wanted to mention that 
  uh we're working on expanding is of course uh the trust 
  Registries the known issuer and verifier lists.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Um in some ways education is a really good 
  industry a good landscape to do that in because a lot of the sort 
  of traditional University issuers are are already on lists 
  somewhere whether it's.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   You know the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Ministry of Education or uh a National 
  Association of um of registrars of academic regards so we're 
  we're working with um those kind of entities to see if they're 
  interested in hosting the credentials since they're a natural 
  Authority there or at very least um educating the various 
  stakeholders that hey this is a necessary piece of infrastructure 
  if we're gonna do anything uh with with VC.
Kimberly Linson:  And are you doing that work um you know on 
  Mondays in the 11 oclock meetings or are you having separate you 
  know work group meetings to to propel that work forward and vote 
  for both of those items.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The latter although you know uh New Year now 
  is a now is a great chance to refresh people's minds on this is 
  what uh known issuer list looks like this is a Specs that we use 
  this is the uh sort of Road bumps that we bumped up against and 
  to uh invite more people to collaborate so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Most likely will have a call on um unknown 
  issue and verify a lists in in the next few weeks.
Kimberly Linson:  In the in the VCU.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  In the VC do you yes.
Kimberly Linson:  Okay great great so if that is of interest to 
  you then I would I would strongly um suggest that you take take a 
  look and and also Demetri I'm I'm sure I'm gonna say that I'm 
  sure folks would be you'd be happy if folks emailed you and let 
  you know that they were they were very interested in that topic 
  and how could they get plugged in yeah okay great.
Kimberly Linson:  Uh anybody else want to talk about something 
  they've been working on and they're excited about and share share 
  that progress.
Kimberly Linson:  And their thoughts about it for for 2024.
Phil_Long_(T3): Hi this is Phil I might be able to say something 
  about the progress on linked claims.
Kimberly Linson:  Great because you know what if nobody jumped in 
  I was going to call on you.
Phil_Long_(T3): How about that.
Phil_Long_(T3): I was anticipating.
Phil_Long_(T3): Um so uh link claims as uh as an approach um to 
  um binding credentials together um with a um hash link.
Phil_Long_(T3): And also allowing any given credential to point 
  to a digital object at a stable location out on the web also with 
  a hash link.
Phil_Long_(T3): Where the hash link adds the feature of camper 
  evidence to the object that it's pointing to.
Phil_Long_(T3): Um is now being developed into an application.
Phil_Long_(T3): That would be a standalone and freely available 
  application to anybody who wish to author either a individual 
  credential that simply made an OBS a simply had evidence or a 
  pointer to an object um in a stable web location or more commonly 
  and sort of the primary motivator for the work is to make a 
  recommendation um of uh.
Phil_Long_(T3): Support for someone's claim in a self asserted 
  credential or for that matter in an issued credential to a third 
  person.
Phil_Long_(T3): Provides both the bonafides of the individual 
  recommender to give credibility to their judgment as to why they 
  are in a position to make um uh.
Phil_Long_(T3): Claim something that you should consider valuable 
  and credible uh and secondly to add evidence to their assertion 
  about your capability that is the recommende capability that they 
  may have uniquely in their possession um.
Phil_Long_(T3): That's going forward um it is being funded by the 
  T3 um.
Phil_Long_(T3): Innovation Network um through a grant from The 
  Gates Foundation and uh fortunately we have Dmitri and his team 
  and um gold of is and her um.
Phil_Long_(T3): Her group um which is at uh.
Phil_Long_(T3): Cooperation. or what's cooking um uh the 2 names 
  she has for the teams that she works with that are doing the 
  actual development work itself and we hope to have that in some 
  form of testable format um by early next year if not before.
Kimberly Linson:  That is very exciting work as as well um if 
  somebody wants to get involved in that that is work so that's not 
  being housed by the ccg that's outside.
Phil_Long_(T3): That's outside the ccg but we certainly were a 
  plan on having updates presented to the ccg for feedback and and 
  suggestions and advice and uh and I would love to be able to uh 
  keep people informed on an ongoing basis about that.
Phil_Long_(T3): So 1 of the things it does represent is a 
  definition of a couple of new of verifiable credential uh data 
  model types that uh at the moment we really only have the 
  compliance uh for the obv 3 and CLR V2 as credentials that are um 
  specific specifically defined for particular functions.
Phil_Long_(T3):  this will be.
Kimberly Linson:  Great thank you so much and and Phil you 
  reminded me of something else that we we definitely that the will 
  and Harrison and I are hoping to get out of this meeting which is 
  you know more topics for this call that we you know folks we need 
  to invite to come and present so um I definitely have made a note 
  that we want to have um this team come and talk about this work 
  um do you think that's sort of quarter 2 of this year quarter 3 
  what do you.
Phil_Long_(T3): Certainly quarter 2 uh would be a reasonable time 
  for an update on things going forward.
Phil_Long_(T3): And I should add there's 1 more credential 
  development piece of work which is in the process which is only 
  proposed at this point it is not funded.
Phil_Long_(T3): Um but that is to build a new credential called 
  The Narrative credential.
Phil_Long_(T3): Um and the narrative credential is essentially 
  just that a story that is punctuated by hyper um hash links to 
  evidence and credentials.
Phil_Long_(T3): Um that can then be used to uh provide context 
  for how someone receiving a stack of credentials um might go 
  through um the credentials presented but also do that with the 
  rationale for the verifiable presentation author to justify why 
  this set of credentials and the evidence in them correspond to 
  whatever it is they're they're either applying for for a job or 
  or a grant or whatever it might be used for.
Kimberly Linson:  That is also very exciting and where is that 
  work item being housed.
Phil_Long_(T3): That's that's also being done through T3 and the 
  learning employment record network but it is at the present time 
  we're happy to talk to a talk at uh talk through that here and 
  invite input from anybody who is interested in helping us to find 
  that and I'll say that with uh a tip of the hat and invitation to 
  Demetri to um.
Phil_Long_(T3): Clarify or extend that if if he wishes.
Kimberly Linson:  I'll tell you just that that that 1 of the.
Kimberly Linson:   Things that.
Kimberly Linson:  I'm getting ready out of this meeting and and 
  I'm going to invite folks to to chime in on this line is that you 
  know I'm doing work with education Design Lab around the skills 
  validation Network and we are very keen on figuring out how to 
  help the folks that we're working with tell narrative stories 
  with their credentials and so that's that's work I didn't know 
  anything about and I'm very excited about it um so so thank you 
  so much for for sharing that.
Phil_Long_(T3): Right well so it's there is a an intention at 
  least to connect this work on the narrative credential to some 
  proposed work to take.
Phil_Long_(T3): The um HR open um.
Phil_Long_(T3): Resume activity which has um is being released as 
  um as their um learning and employment record resume.
Phil_Long_(T3): Version and it's it's version 4.4 which is being 
  voted on by their technical committee as we speak for for release 
  this quarter.
Phil_Long_(T3): And the and 1 of our hopes is that we can turn.
Phil_Long_(T3): Some of those um Json objects that correspond to 
  resume elements into Json LD uh Standalone verifiable credentials 
  so that someone might as create a resume out of a verifiable 
  presentation of those objects and the narrative credential in 
  front of them so to speak.
Kimberly Linson:  Very exciting thank you does anyone have any 
  questions or comments on on Phil's what Phil just shared.
Phil_Long_(T3): 1 thing I would ask this group to consider and I 
  think Demetri you might be able to comment on this as well.
Phil_Long_(T3): Um 1 of the challenges I think we're all facing 
  is that beyond the overall VC data model.
Phil_Long_(T3):  no to my.
Phil_Long_(T3): Knowledge at least other.
Phil_Long_(T3): Implementations of specific credential types.
Phil_Long_(T3): That um the community needs um.
Phil_Long_(T3): Standards for um.
Phil_Long_(T3): That is something that we need to start filling 
  in the gaps as a community as quickly as we can because otherwise 
  it's potential that various individual.
Phil_Long_(T3): Um entities corporations businesses Etc will 
  Define their own and toss them out there and then we'll have a uh 
  a proliferation of things that actually address the same topics.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I I I think that this is I I think that 
  everyone who.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I've sat down with her development teams in 
  implementing anything credential related this is something you've 
  run into.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh the team can say yep okay great credentials 
  sound great we're on board uh we've got a pilot.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Is there any existing credential schemas that 
  we can reuse right for for our for our vertical and the answer is 
  usually no now we we've got a little bit of progress in that area 
  so we've got for example the educational task force here at ccg 
  we've got diff having uh which is decentralized identity 
  Foundation having a couple of working groups in some other 
  verticals such as like Hospitality we have another ccg task force 
  about um oh my God I'm blanking out about um.
Phil_Long_(T3): Well the supply chain is is in there.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh the trans uh um nope completely forgot all 
  words uh anyways so we we've got supply chain thank you that's 
  what I was looking for we we've got the supply chain uh task 
  force here in the ccg so there's there's a tiniest bit of 
  progress in some verticals and complete lack of it in others so 
  we I I completely agree with you Phil that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That we know what envelope we're using uh 
  these these credentials these Json objects uh what do we put 
  inside them is is the main question on everybody's Minds.
Kimberly Linson:  Great thank you both again does anyone want to 
  jump in on on what they've heard so far.
Kimberly Linson:  Do we have anyone here who is doing um some of 
  that work on the supply chain side oh actually pulled that 
  thought and uh let me go to cala.
Kaliya Young:  I think um.
Kaliya Young:  I think we are at an inflection in terms of 
  supporting.
Kaliya Young:  You know these these industries where fees will be 
  useful understanding them and updating them.
Kaliya Young:  Also think like.
Kaliya Young:  We look at the FIDO alliance.
Kaliya Young:  They've been very strategic in having.
Kaliya Young:  Paid staff people.
Kaliya Young:  Whose job is to focus on particular verticals.
Kaliya Young:  And working on telling a story for that vertical 
  I'm driving a job in that vertical.
Kaliya Young:  And I think.
Kaliya Young:  It's not so much ccg because ccg is the beautiful 
  thing it is as a volunteer.
Kaliya Young:  Community-driven space but there are adjacent 
  organizations that do have resourcing and could have paid staff 
  who really focus.
Kaliya Young:  Communicating clearly to verticals.
Kaliya Young:  Because each vertical has its own language it 
  speaks.
Kaliya Young:  And and I think we need to really think about how 
  we do that.
Kimberly Linson:  That's a really interesting.
Kimberly Linson:  Idea and and so I'm I'm.
Kimberly Linson:  I'm curious about you know what what what comes 
  to mind when you think that there there are verticals.
Kimberly Linson:  I'm trying to think about how how we how we get 
  more verticals involved in in the thinking and we how we know and 
  maybe it's you know who needs right education is very clear its 
  supply chain is a very clear like who else.
Kimberly Linson:  Healthcare is probably pretty clear but what 
  else are you who else are you thinking about.
Kaliya Young:  Oh I don't.
Kaliya Young:   A lot.
Kaliya Young:  Of touch points both on physical good supply chain 
  side its own infrastructure and then people.
Kaliya Young:  There's work going on in iata.
Kaliya Young:  Yeah anyways but I I think this is a community 
  conversation right of like okay.
Kaliya Young:   What are.
Kaliya Young:  Where where what what are verticals that have had 
  that have had.
Kaliya Young:  Have startups and or industry associations.
Kaliya Young:  Engaging and how.
<phil_long_(t3)> T3 is working to get the HR industry, through  
  collaboration with HR Open  Standards, to define credentials for 
  their community.
Kaliya Young:  Clear communication into those Industries at their 
  own industry events the nonprofit sector also huge deal.
Kaliya Young:  Doing Social Services.
Kaliya Young:  Interacting with governments.
Kaliya Young:  All the time on behalf of clients they're also you 
  know like there's just a lot of verticals.
Kimberly Linson:  Those are a couple of really of really 
  interesting ones you know you sent me a couple of notes about 
  folks that.
Kimberly Linson:  And also if any others are coming to your mind 
  about presentations we should have upcoming.
Kimberly Linson:  Oh sorry just who who know I was just asking 
  yeah.
Kaliya Young:  You cut out a little bit for me but um I'm happy 
  to send you more things as I I mean there's my newsletter which 
  is how I find all those things right like.
Kimberly Linson:  I was asking who you who you think we should 
  make sure we have come speak at at a ccg meeting.
Kaliya Young:  Yes I'll I'm happy to work on that.
Kimberly Linson:  Um and if yeah and and so that so let me throw 
  that question out to the to the group are there.
Kimberly Linson:   Are there.
Kimberly Linson:  Folks are is there anyone here that that.
Kimberly Linson:  I don't know how to phrase this is there anyone 
  here that really would like to come and speak um and hasn't had 
  the opportunity to come and share the work that they're doing um.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh so definitely a big plus 1 to getting new 
  voices in the room um my suggestion was going to be uh on on a 
  different track uh I'd love to hear back from the Adobe team.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Adobe ctpa standard um that that's developed I 
  would love to hear if anybody's done any experiments Pilots or 
  further investigations on embedding specifically verifiable 
  credentials inside.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  C2p a metadata so I'd love to hear back from 
  that team who has presented here I think a couple years ago 
  something like.
Kimberly Linson:  Yep yep I remember that um okay.
Kimberly Linson:  Does anybody have a name.
Kimberly Linson:  Tumor I can go back and look but does it if you 
  I'm just gonna throw it out there anyone remembers who who it is 
  I'm happy to go and and uh.
Kimberly Linson:  Actually I say I'm happy to but that's 
  Harrison's gig totally is he's the master at uh getting folks to 
  come and and and talk to us.
Kimberly Linson:  So all right we will if you think of somebody 
  that that you know at Adobe um otherwise we will Harrison and 
  I'll put our and will will put our heads together and um.
Kimberly Linson:  To see who we can find Phil.
<dmitri_zagidulin> Leonard Rosenthal was the speaker who 
  presented previously
Kimberly Linson:  Phil did you want to add something.
<dmitri_zagidulin> he's in charge of the C2PA project at the time
Phil_Long_(T3): Sorry I was just typing what I was going to say 
  related to that uh work that c2p is doing is work that Sony is 
  doing embedding in firmware in the actual camera sensors of their 
  new Alpha 7.
<kimberly_wilson_linson> Thanks Dmitri!
Phil_Long_(T3): Um the 4 I guess it's going to be camera the 
  stamping of a credential for the pixel M the the literally the 
  pixels of the full-frame image and generating that on the fly 
  with every picture you take through their lenses.
Phil_Long_(T3): And it would be really interesting to hear from 
  them uh their approach to doing that they described in the ctpa 
  um.
Phil_Long_(T3): Recom um specification how 1 might do that with 
  verifiable credentials as well although I think they're likely 
  doing it in a more proprietary fashion um for their actual 
  product.
Phil_Long_(T3): It's certainly something I'd be nice to hear from 
  them about what you know their upcoming camera release that's 
  already hitting the the photo mags at the moment with this um 
  with this description of documenting the um authenticity of the 
  of the image at time of capture.
Kimberly Linson:  Definitely I and I I yeah we'll we'll do some 
  work on who who that might be but um that sounds fascinating.
Kimberly Linson:  Who else who else has an idea for somebody we 
  want to have come speak to us.
Kimberly Linson:  Or wants to raise their hand because they want 
  to come speak to us.
<dmitri_zagidulin> we should also invite the Guardian Project 
  and/or Starling Labs
Kimberly Linson:  What is the guardian um Demetri what is the 
  Guardian Project um at Sterling and or Sterling labs.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So I was reminded uh by Phil mentioning Sony 
  signing images directly from the chip uh the Guardian Project in 
  Starling labs.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Um are trying to do it on the application 
  Level so they have a free mobile app.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That essentially puts a digital signature on 
  pictures and videos used by journalists uh basically to document 
  war crimes or any other sort of.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Reporting where the uh Providence chain is 
  important either Anonymous or vetted so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Really good projects who are using digital 
  signatures to Secure Media and who are exploring the use of 
  verifiable credentials.
Kimberly Linson:  Great thank you.
<phil_long_(t3)> Starling Labs link: 
<will> There is this 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/blob/main/work_items.md but 
  it is old
Kimberly Linson:  Thank you well so much for bringing that up 
  because I think that's been on on Harrison and I's mind that was 
  definitely something that that Mike was um really spearheading 
  and and able to kind of keep keep keep on top of and so um and 
  will definitely um has has as he's just said volunteered to kind 
  of help with that and and I don't really know how to direct him 
  um so I'm as I'm looking um out here I'm wondering if you might 
  might be able to kind of guide us um and give us some historical 
  perspective on on how.
Kimberly Linson:  How work items were managed and how like.
Kimberly Linson:  Yeah anything you can you can give us would be 
  helpful.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I don't have 
  a lot to offer on that I'm afraid uh I'm my involvement with that 
  was mostly on editing the documents associated with it um.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): The process 
  associated with work items.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Is in the ccg 
  repositories and I did some clean up on that but that's the 
  extent of my involvement.
Kimberly Linson:  Okay um and I did actually um in preparation 
  for this meeting today I did actually pull up um.
Kimberly Linson:   And I'll.
<phil_long_(t3)> Starling Labs Mission to Authentic the Our 
  Digital World: 
  https://www.decential.io/articles/starling-labs-mission-to-authenticate-our-digital-world
Kimberly Linson:  Put in the in the chat the work item process.
Kimberly Linson: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/workitem-process/
Kimberly Linson:  And that you know that's helpful for anyone who 
  is interested in um proposing a new work item.
Kimberly Linson:  To to to have that link and you can kind of go 
  through and see the process for being able to to propose 
  something um I think what we're what will and Harrison and I have 
  been talking about is you know how how to really manage this work 
  as it as it moves forward and make sure that we're we're keeping 
  the community um.
Kimberly Linson:  In the know and also giving you opportunities 
  as as a new folks are joining this community giving opportunities 
  to participate in that in that work that that that they can 
  easily find and be connected to um and so that's a um.
Kimberly Linson:  That's definitely something that I think we're 
  we're finding um a challenge now that this community is so large 
  is how do we.
Kimberly Linson:  How do we how do we plug folks folks in where 
  they want to be be plugged in um so um.
Kimberly Linson:  I'll open up the queue to to sort of respond to 
  that.
Kimberly Linson:  And if I don't get a response.
Kimberly Linson:  I will call on Jeff who who I know is is really 
  good at thinking about sort of how humans connect to this um and 
  has been around this community for a long time and if you've got 
  any kind of insight into best practices um ways that we can kind 
  of keep people plugged into the work I'd really appreciate your 
  your feedback.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: First of all I'm going to do a mic test can you 
  hear me and am I the I'm the.
Kimberly Linson:  Yeah we can hear you we can hear you great.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: Right on and I'm the Jeff you're talking about 
  huh.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: Um I would like to ask a blessing if you would 
  please restate it only in that I was thinking about some CES 
  stuff.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: Got back from regarding the uh provenance um.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: Image stamping um that was just brought up and 
  there were 2 companies I was trying to figure the other 1 out.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS:  so I was.
<kaliya_identity_woman> There is my newsletter that is free - 
  comes out weekly - https://newsletter.identosphere.net/
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: Half listening would you please restate that 
  and I'd love to give some feedback.
Kimberly Linson:  Sure and I agree I was really I'm really 
  excited about that work as well I think it's the uh Guardian 
  Project in Starling Labs um was that those were the the 2 that I 
  wrote down in my notes to go go research uh later and I so I 
  totally get it um I just we're well in Harrison and I have been 
  talking a little bit about making sure that.
Kimberly Linson:  That that in addition to the education aspect 
  that that the ccg provides that we're also you know really making 
  sure that work moves forward that there are work items in 
  progress that that the work items are are well documented and 
  everybody knows kind of where to go to find them and look at them 
  and that we're we're able to really help folks who are new to 
  this community plug in to those work items um and I'm just 
  wondering if from a historical perspective you have you know sort 
  of how that's been done in the past and and how you might help 
  us.
Kimberly Linson:  Maybe bring that a little more to the Forefront 
  than it has been in in the last year and year or 2.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: Wow that's um I appreciate um being uh 
  referenced on this 1 I will say this.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: Took me a couple years to understand really 
  what was going on in these conversations of just persistent 
  listening and understanding so I kind of rough-housed my way into 
  this um.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: Over time I've acclimated so I'd have to think 
  back on what was rough for me or what was it uh what was friction 
  full um in terms of the acquainting myself with the community and 
  also I'm kind of a hybrid I'm not necessarily as technically um 
  bound and bi um I don't have the bindings to the need to get into 
  GitHub and all that cool stuff which I wish I understood better.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: So I'm going to take that question to the side 
  and think about it a bit it is a great question I feel I'm kind 
  of in a weird way because I have acclimated to you all and I sort 
  of forgot the old days when I was fresh and new to it um yet 
  there's always the edge space of learning fresh and new things 
  which I do try and keep track of so can I contemplate that and 
  did I capture what you were asking accurately.
Kimberly Linson:  You you can and I think the takeaway from 
  hearing from both you and Tall Ted is that maybe they're maybe 
  there isn't hasn't been a really like in other words Harrison and 
  and and will and I have been thinking about going back to 
  something that we we haven't been doing but but maybe the truth 
  is we need to actually think about just from from a blank slate 
  like how how would we like how would we like to manage um work 
  items how would we like to to have community members propose them 
  and how would we like to get folks connected to those work items 
  um and so that I actually feel like the 2 of you have been very 
  helpful in letting.
Kimberly Linson:  Letting us know that really there there isn't 
  until like oh well you you know you all should be doing X um.
Kimberly Linson:  So that's that is actually a helpful answer.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: Right on and I'll outro um a springboard off of 
  something you just said about the idea of whiteboarding um on 
  almost any topic when I think about the when I think about human 
  nature which has a lot to do with learning and that kind of thing 
  which is sort of what we're talking about.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: That there are some real commonalities to that 
  and I think uh the idea of a whiteboard like if you took uh 100 
  people from all across the planet that could be technologists it 
  could be folks who are Tech averse and bring them into a room 
  with whiteboard and say if you were to learn something about 
  something hard that had maybe these characteristics and you could 
  point out some technological you know technology rough spots how 
  do you how would you like to learn about things like this and I 
  think that there would be a real core commonality there that the 
  fact you have completely new and.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: Um well you you wouldn't want the average bear 
  from out of nowhere stepping into this but someone who's at least 
  inclined to be thinking about it that would be your community I 
  suppose.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: And just ask them what works best and I think 
  you'll find a common bell curve there and maybe you guys can pull 
  from that Harvest.
Jeff_O_/_HumanOS: The way to reaching and um sharing of knowledge 
  and stuff.
Kimberly Linson:  Great that's really helpful.
Kimberly Linson:  All right anybody else want to jump in and 
  contribute to the conversation talk about what they're thinking 
  what's on their I'm happy to hear kind of what what's on your 
  mind about 2024 and where you hope this this.
Kimberly Linson:  Work in credentials and however it it touches 
  your work um is going um definitely this is the purpose of this 
  meeting is today is kind of to to be thinking about what's top of 
  mind and we've heard some really interesting things already um so 
  I'd like to just open it up again to anybody who wants to share 
  what's on their on their mind for 2024.
<dmitri_zagidulin> at some point it would be great to have the 
  OWF present again, just like, give updates
Kimberly Linson:  All right I'm gonna um I'm gonna see if if 
  Wendy I know you've been around this community for a long time 
  too and and I'd really love to hear what what is sort of top of 
  mind around credentials for you this year and if you don't mind 
  sharing that.
Wendy_Seltzer: Uh thanks Kimberly um for me uh this is the year 
  of governance and so I'm looking beyond the.
Wendy_Seltzer: Technology specifics uh at uh what we need to do 
  to bring the people and organizations together to.
Wendy_Seltzer: Uh agree on uh terms of interaction on uh The 
  Binding of those terms uh so that participants can um.
<harrison_tang> We had OWF present in December.  We are trying to 
  get their technical folks to present on digital wallet 
  capabilities right now, but the schedule hasn't been nailed down 
  yet.
<jeff_o_/_humanos> Nikon, Canon & Sony  
  https://www.extremetech.com/electronics/nikon-sony-and-canon-cameras-will-soon-embed-watermarks-in-photos
Wendy_Seltzer: Comfortable uh engaging knowing that uh if they 
  have expectations about privacy uh those are met through the 
  combination of technology and uh enforceable rules uh and 
  commitments um so um I I'm doing a lot of uh thinking uh over 
  with that the folks in trust over IP Foundation uh looking at 
  their uh.
Wendy_Seltzer: Governance stack and um in my work at 2 Cass I'm 
  uh thinking about what sorts of organizational uh structures and 
  and agreements we need and uh so that the technology is a a 
  component um of of of of that um and I welcome.
Wendy_Seltzer: Conversations with other people who are uh 
  thinking about governance.
Kimberly Linson:  Thank you I think that is definitely something 
  we need to to put on the list and I know you know.
Kimberly Linson:  From from where I sit.
Kimberly Linson:  We're we're getting.
Kimberly Linson:  Customers and clients I was trying to think of 
  how my my project manager said um that it's like.
Kimberly Linson:  It's like the the customer just just bought us 
  a a grain Harvester and then and then we get in with our grain 
  Harvester and they figure out they they they've just bought the 
  farm and they haven't even planted anything yet um and so we're 
  we're needing to do a lot of that that back work and and and 
  we're not sort of prepared for that so I think the idea of of 
  really having a blueprint and and understanding.
<jeff_o_/_humanos> CES AI 2024 Governance   
  https://live.ces.tech/detail/6344703413112/ai-2024
Kimberly Linson:  Really truly the nuts and bolts of of how to 
  help someone think through governance is is you're right like 
  this has got to be the year because people are are like we're 
  ready to move and they're and they're basically moving forward 
  without a plan that the governance would would provide and so 
  they're making decisions on the fly when if they had just stopped 
  for a minute and thought through those decisions they could have 
  done it in a much more intentional way so I I'm I'm excited 
  definitely to be um talking with you about that uh in 2024.
Kaliya Young:  Um this is sort of building on the question you 
  were asking about like supporting new people and orientation to 
  the community um I think I had this vision of like newbie calls.
Kaliya Young:  Potentially being hosted collaboratively with diff 
  um.
Kaliya Young:  Because there is a lot of activity there maybe 
  even if and Trust over IP who knows like but let's start small 
  with like 1 collaboration that maybe doable um.
Kaliya Young:  Is um because Kim Hamilton Duffy's now the 
  executive director of deaf.
Kaliya Young:  She used to share this group I think.
Kaliya Young:  So it's but there's a sort of feels like an 
  opening potential of new collaboration.
Kaliya Young:  That might make sense to brooch.
Kimberly Linson:  I love that.
Kaliya Young:  Because the goal is to get people to go to the 
  place within this broad community of which there are several 
  different organizations hosting spaces where they will be the 
  most.
Kaliya Young:  Connected right and that's in all of them are not 
  in CG yetev or inside trust or write P or it's the open-ended 
  Foundation etc etc.
Kimberly Linson:   It's a great.
<harrison_tang> i think a combined newbie call is a great idea!
Kimberly Linson:  I will reach out I will reach out to Kim and we 
  can we can talk about that that I I like your idea of sort of 
  like 2 and then we could add a third and then we could eventually 
  like as you were talking a sort of picturing how nice it would be 
  to have sort of like a.
Kimberly Linson:  Session across all the communities where each 
  sort of group had like you know 5 minutes to sort of say here's 
  what we do here's our here's our our perspective on the community 
  here's our our our perspective um and give everyone a chance to 
  kind of like I would love that I feel like I would learn a lot 
  from from that kind of a um and I definitely um love the idea of 
  uh of of you know we we've done some newbie calls before in this 
  community and they were very very valuable uh and and I came in 
  to this community.
<harrison_tang> i was a newbie once, and it was really hard to 
  know what's going on in different communities.  actually, it was 
  Kaliya who helped me out
Kimberly Linson:  34 Um and we'll and we'll actually add that to 
  to my list um Harrison I'm going to go ahead and um actually I 
  will go to the queue first um and then Harrison maybe I'll let 
  you live that leave the last word so Bob.
Bob Wyman:  Yeah I don't.
Bob Wyman:   I have a.
Bob Wyman:  Are in detail to say about this I and.
Bob Wyman:  Stepped up for a moment so somebody else might have 
  said this but I I personally would like to see.
Bob Wyman:  Uh the credentials.
Bob Wyman:  Is much more in the Social Web context I know that's 
  going to be addressed in a future meeting but um I think um.
Bob Wyman:  A lot of the applications that people have talked 
  about it but you know they've been sort of administrative 
  commercial Etc but I think I think um.
Bob Wyman:  Hasn't been as much.
Bob Wyman:  Controls in the social context in the sort of the 
  non-monetary non-transactional world um and I think that's that's 
  going to be an important area to uh.
Bob Wyman:  To get into I'm looking forward to that in the 
  future.
Kimberly Linson:  Agreed that's a that's a great way right so 
  much of our Lives now are lived in that in that way and and 
  thinking about how credentials can be used there makes a lot of 
  makes a lot of sense and and maybe how we can sort of start to.
Kimberly Linson:  You know streamline some of some of this um uh 
  Harrison I'm gonna give you the last.
Kimberly Linson:  Last word since we're almost at time.
Harrison_Tang: All right thanks Kimberly uh thanks for moderating 
  the conversations uh I think uh for me uh ccg uh is holds a 
  special place because this is the uh my kind of newbie initiation 
  Community for me to kind of learn about these uh topics and I 
  think uh going forward uh you know CGI is what the community 
  makes out to be right so if there's uh topics that people want to 
  uh hear about or talk about uh please just reach out to any of 
  the cultures uh so that we can help uh schedule and align them in 
  our content calendar um so uh Bob actually we do have uh uh 
  demetry here well you will be kind of talking about Social Web 
  community group updates on the februari 13th uh so we do have 
  that conversation coming up and if there's other uh if there are 
  other topics that Social Web.
Harrison_Tang: That uh uh or if you know a personally right uh 
  please uh help us uh introduce that and then we can have uh them 
  to talk about those uh things in detail such as web fingers and 
  and the activity Pub you know those kind of uh uh protocols um.
Harrison_Tang: Well kind of to preview uh for next week we have 
  VC test Suite uh and then the week after that we got the ID DHT 
  uh distribute the hash table and then the week after that we got 
  modular open source identity platform and then on the 13th of 
  febuary we got a Social Web community group and we're trying to 
  uh schedule um topics after the 13th of febuary uh right now I'm 
  I found um the email of uh uh lender Rosenthal and then uh we'll 
  try to get him to give the update on the c2p Coalition of content 
  Providence and authenticity that uh.
Harrison_Tang: With an intervention earlier um in the lineup uh 
  we also have tried to get the VC 2.0 updates as well as the bit 
  stream uh status list uh coming up so anyway these are the 
  preview of topics that we're going to kind of talk about there's 
  an area that last year people mentioned want to hear more about 
  which is the intersection between Ai and identity uh so far we 
  haven't had a lot of success so if there's a there are people 
  that you think can uh who will be willing to share their 
  knowledge uh on the intersection of identity and AI uh please uh 
  pin any of us we would love to lighten them up uh because that's 
  1 area that uh that's in my kind of uh to-do list that we haven't 
  had a lot of success on um anyway so those are the big topics uh 
  another area that where I would love to um improve upon or have.
Harrison_Tang:  room for.
Harrison_Tang: Just more work items right uh uh more work 
  activities So to that extent.
Harrison_Tang: People can uh give us suggestions and how how we 
  can actually execute toward that uh that would be uh very much 
  appreciated.
Harrison_Tang: Thanks but look forward to a great 2024 again uh 
  the community is what the communities uh makes it to be right so 
  uh please uh feel free to give us constructive criticisms uh and 
  feedback and we'll try to improve.
<rashmi_siravara> I have  good pointer's on credentials for next 
  week based on today's meeting
Kimberly Linson:  Great thank you thank you all this was really 
  enjoyable I learned a lot and I'm excited about um researching 
  some of the uh interesting things um that I learned a lot today.
Kimberly Linson:  Thank you all.
