[2022-02-08T16:53:56.182Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2022-02-08T16:53:58.216Z]	<David_Singer>	present+
[2022-02-08T16:56:15.220Z]	<Chris_Abernethy_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-02-08T16:56:20.832Z]	<Chris_Wilson_(he/him,_Google)>	present+
[2022-02-08T16:56:26.728Z]	<dsinger>	present+ dsinger
[2022-02-08T16:56:26.778Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2022-02-08T16:57:40.460Z]	<manu>	scribe+
[2022-02-08T16:58:04.402Z]	<Tzviya_Siegman>	present+
[2022-02-08T16:59:46.513Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2022-02-08T16:59:46.956Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-02-08T16:59:55.961Z]	<Eric_Siow>	present+
[2022-02-08T16:59:56.128Z]	<Leonard_Rosenthol>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:00:30.817Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:01:03.563Z]	<Léonie_Watson>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:01:18.373Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:01:33.333Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:01:58.501Z]	<Leo>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:02:01.372Z]	<Eric_Siow>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:02:06.466Z]	<BrentZ>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:02:09.324Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:02:13.735Z]	<Tzviya_Siegman>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:02:16.200Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:02:18.457Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:02:20.769Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:02:23.857Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:03:16.970Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:03:42.924Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:03:51.434Z]	<leonardr>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:04:23.116Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:04:48.942Z]	<Leonard_Rosenthol>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:04:53.089Z]	<Léonie_Watson>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:05:04.644Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:05:40.041Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:05:47.343Z]	<Leonard_Rosenthol>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:05:50.649Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:05:52.120Z]	<manu>	mprorock: Let's go ahead and kick off.
[2022-02-08T17:05:55.189Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:06:02.815Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:06:16.166Z]	<mprorock>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Feb/0013.html
[2022-02-08T17:06:19.067Z]	<manu>	mprorock: Hello and welcome to weekly CCG, apologies for audio issues, fighting a few Chrome bugs right now.
[2022-02-08T17:06:24.005Z]	<manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Feb/0013.html
[2022-02-08T17:06:35.636Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:07:07.065Z]	<manu>	mprorock: Just a quick IP note, anyone participating, any substatntive contributers to CCG work items, you need to sign IPR agreement. Please read the agenda, if you have detailed questions, we're going to dive into legal entity issues at W3C.
[2022-02-08T17:07:34.090Z]	<manu>	Topic: W3C Migration to a "Legal Entity"
[2022-02-08T17:08:14.383Z]	<manu>	mprorock: As context for today, quite a few folks have been following on W3C and issues, some items/issues around formation of legal entity. Context around that, pulled together quick list of questions for background on topic. Insight, input from AB folks -- what's going on. Increase transparency.
[2022-02-08T17:08:27.816Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:08:29.099Z]	<manu>	Meeting: weekly
[2022-02-08T17:08:55.612Z]	<Leo>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:08:58.189Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:09:31.955Z]	<manu>	mprorock: We are recording the CCG call, this will be made public.
[2022-02-08T17:09:33.589Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:09:42.400Z]	<TallTed>	we're actually forbidden to record if there's an objection by a call participant
[2022-02-08T17:09:46.781Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:09:59.837Z]	<manu>	heather: Are we using transcriber or auto transcribing?
[2022-02-08T17:10:02.937Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:10:04.847Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:10:16.941Z]	<manu>	mprorock: We are not going to record audio, we will be manually scribing the meeting.
[2022-02-08T17:10:40.330Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:11:06.242Z]	<manu>	Topic: History on W3C Legal Entity Status
[2022-02-08T17:11:06.242Z]	<manu>	mprorock: We'll do some background here, introduction. Chris Wilson, can you give us a history on the W3C Legal Entity status? Why the need to restructure?
[2022-02-08T17:11:14.904Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:11:59.847Z]	<manu>	cwilso: We wanted to start out by trying to explain backstory. It can be confusing, we covered this in AC office hours -- important to highlight that W3C is not a single legal entity, there is no "W3C Inc.". There is not central entity. W3C was created by department in MIT and other organizations. The reason they did this, it was expedient.
[2022-02-08T17:12:54.422Z]	<manu>	cwilso: Over time, this has been less and less effective, what used to hold everything together (the Directory - Tim Berners-Lee) was a strong directing figure. He has more or less retired at this point, what remains is something that doesn't have a strong vision, principles. What we have today is four entities, no clear direction, no financial oversight.
[2022-02-08T17:13:13.264Z]	<manu>	cwilso: Things like Formal Objections get handed to the team, they're escalated to TimBl, then delegated to team, then Team magically decides.
[2022-02-08T17:13:41.366Z]	<manu>	cwilso: MIT has decided to end their hosting relationship, which has prompted the timeline ... pushed forward decision for single legal entity... how will this affect people, let's pass it over to leonie.
[2022-02-08T17:13:50.507Z]	<rgrant_(Ryan_Grant)>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:13:59.590Z]	<manu>	mprorock: What is the impact to members, other folks participating?
[2022-02-08T17:14:25.265Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:14:26.087Z]	<manu>	leonie: I don't think it's going to be a big change, everything is going to say very much as it has been - concentrate on building standards, working groups, etc.
[2022-02-08T17:15:17.017Z]	<manu>	leonie: What will become better, though is governance. We have hosts that have been hands off for much of the existence. We will end up with a Board that has a more hands on involvement. For a community as broad and as diverse as W3C will be important to have a strong Board.
[2022-02-08T17:15:39.103Z]	<FN67e62c664b45ab8d4d0d9c4bf61b40a7>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:15:47.624Z]	<manu>	mprorock: For governance models, boards, distinction -- financial and strategic directions -- group activities, member activities, any follow up thoughts, additional clarifications?
[2022-02-08T17:16:03.557Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:16:21.738Z]	<manu>	leonie: Activities around technical work will carry on as they always have. The Board, though, is going to be much more about strategic and financial oversight. It could be argued that we haven't had enough, historically. There will be a much better separation of concerns.
[2022-02-08T17:16:40.111Z]	<manu>	leonie: We will have a board that will have a higher level of oversight.
[2022-02-08T17:16:47.089Z]	<manu>	mprorock: Where are we from a legal entity status?
[2022-02-08T17:17:33.406Z]	<manu>	dsinger: Overall, the Advisory Board and W3C Management have been working on this for quite a while now... the steering committee is unwilling to give up control of their part of the organization. We lack coordinated oversight from governance point of view.
[2022-02-08T17:18:10.460Z]	<bobwyman>	q+
[2022-02-08T17:18:42.334Z]	<mprorock>	I see you Bob - will be running through some groundwork and background questions then moving on to the queue
[2022-02-08T17:18:47.442Z]	<manu>	dsinger: Trade Associations usually put away a buffer of funding... that was 25 years ago for W3C. The Hosts have provided that buffer from their own funding, but have not assigned any of that to W3C. The Hosts have provided small amounts of money for transition, to cover legal costs, but not enough for operating buffer. ISOC has provided a willingness to consider funding, but they have a couple of conditions met -- member-led consortium, match member
[2022-02-08T17:18:47.516Z]	<manu>	funding.
[2022-02-08T17:18:55.387Z]	<bobwyman>	no problem.
[2022-02-08T17:19:03.326Z]	<manu>	dsinger: There might be funding from Europe as well, but don't know what conditions that's attached to.
[2022-02-08T17:19:22.207Z]	<manu>	dsinger: We also don't have a compelling governance structure and monetary funding needs, so that is needed.
[2022-02-08T17:19:49.697Z]	<manu>	dsinger: There is a complex nature of engagement w/ Hosts -- they support W3C work with accessibility with contracts/grants and hire W3C staff and manage their contracts.
[2022-02-08T17:19:59.512Z]	<manu>	mprorock: What are we looking at in practical terms, here?
[2022-02-08T17:20:21.768Z]	<manu>	Topic: Possible Outcomes for W3C Legal Entity
[2022-02-08T17:20:21.768Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: In my mind, there are four possible outcomes -- let me start with the worst case scenario:
[2022-02-08T17:20:42.668Z]	<rgrant_(Ryan_Grant)>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:20:56.924Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: The first, nothing happens, MIT contracts end... I don't think MIT would do that, they feel a sense of responsibility to not let W3C be without a good transition. Nevertheless, this is a possibility.
[2022-02-08T17:21:18.573Z]	<PL>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:21:58.808Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: The second possibility, we remain in a host structure, basically status-quo. MIT will say -- Hey, you were unable to spin out, we'll keep you in structure as you continue to work on it, or they may transition the host agreement to another university. Harvard has been thrown around, no idea how serious that proposal is. Web is no longer something new and sexy, been around for 25 years, the prospect of another University replacing MIT is probably
[2022-02-08T17:21:58.870Z]	<manu>	not high.
[2022-02-08T17:22:30.132Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: The third possibility, the EU funding comes through, but then again they've been talking about it for a few years now... IF EU funding comes through, there are expected to be strings attached, could be quite EU centric.
[2022-02-08T17:22:31.935Z]	<BrentZ>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:22:54.996Z]	<Tantek_Çelik_(he/him,_Mozilla,_W3C_AB)>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:23:30.801Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: Fourth possibility, new legal entity co-funded by a couple of members and ISOC -- host transitioning to several agreements, that is stalled due to misperceptions and mischaracterizations. For those companies that want to volunteer, that becomes difficult for us, none of those companies want to be subject to negative PR.
[2022-02-08T17:23:35.783Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: That's where we're at right now.
[2022-02-08T17:23:52.681Z]	<manu>	mprorock: Status around EU funding, where is the communication breakdown there?
[2022-02-08T17:24:30.436Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: I don't think there is a communication breakdown, it's mainly driven out of ERCIM, they just need to get the EU government/authority to give them the money. As far as we know, they say "it's possible for us to get the money", but they've been talking about that for two years now.
[2022-02-08T17:24:50.262Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:24:59.095Z]	<manu>	tzviya: We've been working on this for a few years. There is another session later today if you want to attend.
[2022-02-08T17:25:27.519Z]	<manu>	tzviya: The Steering Committee are people from the four Hosts, Tim Berners-Lee, and the W3C CEO -- Jeff Jaffe.
[2022-02-08T17:25:51.103Z]	<manu>	tzviya: The Advisory Board are elected by W3C Members -- we need to get consensus across a very broad group of people, we need to have clear communication.
[2022-02-08T17:25:55.526Z]	<TallTed>	tangent -- What "office hours" are folks speaking of?  I'm sure there's a calendar or mailing list I should have subscribed to, but haven't...  Please point me (and others) there?
[2022-02-08T17:26:31.699Z]	<manu>	tzviya: There is rising risk of significant economic downturn, could cause a problem with funding. People are increasingly concerned around speed at which this is moving... W3C Members are concerned, W3C Staff are concerned about their future.
[2022-02-08T17:27:08.005Z]	<manu>	mprorock: When we're talking about W3C staff, we're taking about MIT Host organization -- employee of MIT, not W3C (since technically, no one is employed by W3C since it's not a legal entity).
[2022-02-08T17:27:24.049Z]	<manu>	tzviya: Yes, each Host employs "W3C Staff"... MIT, ERCIM, Japan.
[2022-02-08T17:27:40.852Z]	<manu>	mprorock: How can members support and engage positively, what is your take on this?
[2022-02-08T17:28:26.186Z]	<tantek>	having trouble with mic
[2022-02-08T17:29:09.536Z]	<mprorock>	tantek - a refresh might work if it isn't a system issue
[2022-02-08T17:29:44.633Z]	<manu>	cwilso: The Advisory Board needs to have more engagement from community -- Advisory board has been heads-down trying to solve problems... we haven't done good enough job communicating... maybe we should have Advisory Board hours? Engage in this conversation, insist on truthful and transparent information. We're all stakeholders here. We're not trying to represent only people on AB... we want to represent everyone that has a stake in the Web.
[2022-02-08T17:30:22.138Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2022-02-08T17:30:28.267Z]	<manu>	cwilso: A lot of organizations started out as Benevolent Dictator For Life model... and transitioned away from that. W3C is ready for that, getting Steering COmmittee to buy off on member-led organization is important, and others getting involved is important.
[2022-02-08T17:30:47.200Z]	<Tantek_Çelik_(he/him,_Mozilla,_W3C_AB)>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:30:55.238Z]	<manu>	mprorock: What about member-driven aspects? Something that may not be touched on by Chris/others?
[2022-02-08T17:31:43.887Z]	<manu>	dsinger: Problem w/ making progress is the question: TimBL is formerly in charge, SC is formaly steering 9but haven't in a while), management team is not centralized, operating w/ four heads... fallen to Advisory Board, but AB is advisory. This is a recipe for stasis and problems and that's where we find ourselves.
[2022-02-08T17:32:01.941Z]	<bobwyman>	He's not on.
[2022-02-08T17:32:06.590Z]	<Tantek_Çelik_(he/him,_Mozilla,_W3C_AB)>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:32:07.340Z]	<dsinger>	s/formerly in charge/formally in charge/
[2022-02-08T17:32:38.298Z]	<manu>	tzviya: I know many of you are not full W3C members, we've had some great feedback from this group -- Orie and Mike were in the office hours, a lot of you are active on AC Forum -- it's important to have that input, it does more than what you might think.
[2022-02-08T17:32:40.977Z]	<mprorock>	Tantek if you can jump in post Tzvia audio wise, that would be great
[2022-02-08T17:32:48.455Z]	<manu>	q+ to ask -- even CG member input?
[2022-02-08T17:32:57.490Z]	<mprorock>	@ted - going to start queue in a minute
[2022-02-08T17:33:18.295Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2022-02-08T17:33:28.367Z]	<manu>	tzviya: It's really important to see feedback from across W3C -- anyone that does not have access, there are other ways to get input ... we are trying to keep things as transparent as possible.
[2022-02-08T17:33:30.256Z]	<tzviya>	https://github.com/w3c/AB-memberonly
[2022-02-08T17:33:33.477Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	q-
[2022-02-08T17:33:44.479Z]	<manu>	tzviya: if we have transparency, we don't have secrets.
[2022-02-08T17:33:58.233Z]	<tzviya>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/w3c-ac-forum/
[2022-02-08T17:34:14.697Z]	<tzviya>	https://github.com/w3c/le-governance
[2022-02-08T17:34:26.805Z]	<rgrant_(Ryan_Grant)>	tantek, try the phone: +1 602 932 2243 x1
[2022-02-08T17:34:32.043Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2022-02-08T17:34:45.474Z]	<manu>	Topic: Interplay between W3C and Community Groups
[2022-02-08T17:34:45.474Z]	<manu>	hvescent: I've got a couple of quesitons -- most burning/direct question -- new governance would be more hands on -- CGs have been more hands off, haven't been able to get much support from W3C core...
[2022-02-08T17:34:52.462Z]	<cwilso>	q+ to answer
[2022-02-08T17:35:00.635Z]	<manu>	hvescent: I know you're focusing on WGs, but CGs are also a part of W3C... how does CG governance change?
[2022-02-08T17:35:02.310Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	My Q:
You mentioned the new governance will be more hands on, and community groups have been mainly hands off... Do you have any idea the changed structure will impact community groups?
[2022-02-08T17:35:55.622Z]	<cwilso>	q-
[2022-02-08T17:35:56.039Z]	<manu>	leonie: Yes, CGs are a part of W3C, many of us run CGs. I don't expect much to change, CGs will continue to operate as they always have -- Board will focus on strategy/financials, but don't expect them to hav eany real input/sense of direction over technical direction of standards.
[2022-02-08T17:36:25.562Z]	<manu>	hvescent: These changes you're making today, moment in time, opportunity to rethink operational structure of way W3C has worked, how do these changes impact work that comes out of this organization from 3-5 years?
[2022-02-08T17:37:02.738Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Mike - I have one last question if possible to ask.
[2022-02-08T17:37:13.590Z]	<mprorock>	+1 heather
[2022-02-08T17:37:16.911Z]	<mprorock>	we have time
[2022-02-08T17:37:19.701Z]	<tzviya>	q+ to respond to heather
[2022-02-08T17:37:34.286Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:38:03.892Z]	<manu>	dsinger: I forgot to mention, we've been doing work on Director-free -- general vision for future, for many members of AB, is consortium that is member-led and "daddy free" -- we've been operating with TimBL Director... but can we replace that figure? I've argued, we've grown up, we need to be able to govern ourselves to make decisions. So vision is very much a member led consortium, oversight w/ budgets, strategy, accounts, etc. Looking ahead
[2022-02-08T17:38:03.949Z]	<manu>	strategically, governing ourselves to meet needs of community.
[2022-02-08T17:38:26.862Z]	<Tantek_Çelik_(he/him,_Mozilla,_W3C_AB)>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:38:41.028Z]	<Tantek_(he/him)>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:38:42.468Z]	<manu>	dsinger: We would like W3C to have some aspects of public-interest led -- Web Foundation is for that... W3C is about technical standards that meet the needs of society, implemented by members, membership is key. Vision is key for that.
[2022-02-08T17:39:13.484Z]	<mprorock>	ack tzviya
[2022-02-08T17:39:16.540Z]	<manu>	dsinger: We must learn to self govern, how to deal with Formal objections (which we're drowning in w/o a father figure), we need to have a coordinated management structure, set funding principles, set management principles.
[2022-02-08T17:39:48.788Z]	<manu>	tzviya: I wanted to just add two points, AB has drafted a document, kind of a mission/vision statement (link to follow), to jump start conversation about true vision for W3C.
[2022-02-08T17:39:59.193Z]	<cwilso>	https://github.com/WebStandardsFuture/Vision
[2022-02-08T17:40:11.654Z]	<mprorock>	+1 cwilso
[2022-02-08T17:40:20.309Z]	<dsinger>	s/We would like W3C to have some aspects of public-interest led/Some feel that W3C should be considered more as public-interest/
[2022-02-08T17:40:27.247Z]	<manu>	tzviya: We also need to focus on modernization, some of W3Cs technologies haven't gotten better -- pipelining, make W3C website more modern, other things that can't discuss today, but can talk about them another time.
[2022-02-08T17:41:09.922Z]	<manu>	hvescent: What actions are you taking to make updates available to internal and external audiences, there are some opportunities for existing members, just curious to learn, do you have plans -- ways to keep community updated as things progress?
[2022-02-08T17:41:26.125Z]	<manu>	mprorock: What about AB office hours, anything else?
[2022-02-08T17:41:47.594Z]	<manu>	tzviya: That document on future vision is open to everyone. AB office hours, don't know who that would be open to... we'll have to figure that out.
[2022-02-08T17:41:51.536Z]	<tantek>	q+ to see if I can talk about working in the open
[2022-02-08T17:42:17.195Z]	<mprorock>	ack tantek
[2022-02-08T17:42:26.665Z]	<manu>	tzviya: AB Minutes are W3C Member-only, perhaps we need to publicize this more... there are some things that are sensitive, but we strive to make everything as public and visible as possible.
[2022-02-08T17:43:22.650Z]	<mprorock>	Moving on to queue after tantek here - I believe bob wyman is on point
[2022-02-08T17:43:26.642Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2022-02-08T17:43:28.029Z]	<manu>	tantek: Hi everyone, from Mozilla and W3C AB, wanted to jump in -- I can sympathize a lot with Heather's question, have worked w/ W3C at various levels... IE, member, ... one of the things we're trying to do w/ AB, move more and more what AB does, process/bureaucracy into the open for more transparency and more engagement.
[2022-02-08T17:43:34.590Z]	<tantek>	https://www.w3.org/wiki/AB
[2022-02-08T17:43:37.875Z]	<manu>	tantek: One of the things in AB, we try to do as much work on wiki...
[2022-02-08T17:44:31.558Z]	<manu>	tantek: We have continued to make things public when we can, there are some issues that are sensitive to specific organizations/individuals, we try to do our best to respect their privacy/sensitivities, everything that involves a greater community -- AB gets a certain amount of information, we've made some progress on that, can make more progress on that front.
[2022-02-08T17:44:47.637Z]	<manu>	tantek: Happy to have engagement today, thanks for the invitation.
[2022-02-08T17:45:15.850Z]	<mprorock>	ack bobwy
[2022-02-08T17:45:16.276Z]	<manu>	mprorock: We really appreciate the AB coming out to talk w/ us. The reality is W3C has grown/expanded, the personal interconnectivity might not be there, lack of meetings, etc.
[2022-02-08T17:45:44.315Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2022-02-08T17:45:45.705Z]	<manu>	dsinger: Quick apology for messy nature of AB, no one expected things to go on for that long... sorry, it's a difficult problem.
[2022-02-08T17:45:54.599Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	The sharing and transparency is appreciated. Thank you.
[2022-02-08T17:46:54.676Z]	<Eric_Siow>	q+
[2022-02-08T17:46:58.983Z]	<manu>	bobwyman: Folk will remember, back in late 1990s, there were a lot of people miffed when Web space was pulled out at IETF and moved over to W3C. Symbolically, the difference between RFC1866 RFC2854 -- going from spec to media type definition... question is: Why wouldn't standards-making portions move back to IETF? They're transparent, "daddy-free", why not just move the standards bit back to IETF?
[2022-02-08T17:47:18.620Z]	<mprorock>	ack Eric
[2022-02-08T17:47:21.322Z]	<manu>	dsinger: We did talk about that, operating modes are so different from W3C and IETF, we couldn't figure out how to do that w/o dislocating, it remains an open question.
[2022-02-08T17:47:34.851Z]	<cwilso>	qq+
[2022-02-08T17:47:44.309Z]	<cwilso>	q+ to respond
[2022-02-08T17:48:01.662Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: in addition to what David said, we still have a Host controlling W3C -- at end of day, in my personal view, we need to have a consensus/broad support from membership in whatever we do.
[2022-02-08T17:48:24.723Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: That point I'm making isn't specific to IETF, whatever plan we go in, the key ingredient is to have broad membership support.
[2022-02-08T17:48:26.294Z]	<mprorock>	ack cwilso
[2022-02-08T17:48:27.977Z]	<manu>	mprorock: great point
[2022-02-08T17:48:30.230Z]	<tantek>	q+ to note values & principles of W3C as something the community values https://github.com/WebStandardsFuture/Vision
[2022-02-08T17:49:22.925Z]	<rgrant>	q+ to ask what about the IETF operating modes would result in bad standards
[2022-02-08T17:49:29.740Z]	<manu> Topic: Differences Between W3C and IETF
[2022-02-08T17:49:29.740Z]	<manu>	cwilso: I wanted to chime in, there are a lot of values that W3C has that is not obvious, doesn't align well in IETF... we have been looking at different models, interestingly IETF isn't quite that either and they have some positive things about culture there, but at same time, they're not a 1-to-1 match for what W3C has done in the past, didn't want to lose that.
[2022-02-08T17:49:30.970Z]	<mprorock>	ack tantek
[2022-02-08T17:49:48.290Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2022-02-08T17:50:17.541Z]	<manu>	tantek: I appreciate Bob's question, we should be making considerate choices, where and how to make standards -- creation of W3C from IETF, interesting history there, my own opinion: Something we've learned from open source communities and IETF, BDFL model is obsolete, W3C has not moved past that, one way or another, we need to do that.
[2022-02-08T17:50:39.941Z]	<mprorock>	BDFL - Benevolent Dictator for Life
[2022-02-08T17:50:47.924Z]	<manu>	tantek: We recognize that what the requires is a higher level of mutual trust in the community, if you don't have BDFL, you have to build a higher level of trust in community... see link for details.
[2022-02-08T17:51:43.292Z]	<bobwyman>	In what ways is the standards process of W3C better than that of IETF? What would be lost by relying more on IETF?
[2022-02-08T17:52:07.650Z]	<tzviya>	CEPC= Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct
[2022-02-08T17:52:10.168Z]	<manu>	tantek: That is essential to move into model that doesn't have a BDFL... specifically, around IETF - lots overlaps with IETF, but there is a lot there that W3C has done and gone far beyond. Not an insult to IETF, but we have attracted another diverse set of folks that work on web standards, that is reflective of different values -- horizontal review, accessibility, W3C TAG operate differently, Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct -- we are supporters
[2022-02-08T17:52:10.244Z]	<manu>	of CEPC, but it's different than code of conduct at IETF.
[2022-02-08T17:52:22.915Z]	<manu>	tantek: It's important to maintain and not lose, how we maintain them is the question.
[2022-02-08T17:52:29.105Z]	<mprorock>	ack TallTed
[2022-02-08T17:52:32.577Z]	<manu>	mprorock: Yes, there are unique things there in how standards are approached.
[2022-02-08T17:52:39.977Z]	<rgrant>	Why not work the good ideas of CEPC into IETF, if they're good then why would they object?
[2022-02-08T17:53:13.127Z]	<manu>	TallTed: I'm not an AC rep, not an AB member, there have been references to a number of things that are theoretically in public view, but I have not seen them yet. There have been references to office hows -- what calendar, where is that listed, how can I join?
[2022-02-08T17:53:16.878Z]	<cwilso>	q+ to reply
[2022-02-08T17:53:30.084Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:53:39.162Z]	<manu>	TallTed: I'm very well engaged, but I'm unaware of a chunk of things -- I'm in W3C Process CG, but this isn't mentioned there...
[2022-02-08T17:53:50.466Z]	<manu>	mprorock: You're getting at something important Ted, there are gaps here.
[2022-02-08T17:53:53.892Z]	<mprorock>	ack cwils
[2022-02-08T17:53:56.877Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2022-02-08T17:54:22.670Z]	<manu>	cwilso: I just wanted to say, there are definitely some gaps, W3C management has centered around W3C staff as proxy for all of membership, at one point it fit well.
[2022-02-08T17:55:04.842Z]	<manu>	cwilso: For example, I am AC Rep for Google and one alternate, but it's been keeping some people out that have powerful things to say, like people who aren't AC reps... good feedback to take back. AC office hours have been for AC... I think they should just be W3C Office Hours, and whoever shows up, shows up.
[2022-02-08T17:55:31.419Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:55:32.773Z]	<manu>	cwilso: As someone that's a frequent target, minutes and what you can do with those minutes, going truly public can lead to exposure that make some of us clam up a bit.
[2022-02-08T17:56:08.580Z]	<manu>	TallTed: I can understand some of that, but this conversation is happening in CG... outer fringes of W3C involvement... many in here aren't exposed to this level of detail.
[2022-02-08T17:56:12.761Z]	<tantek>	+1 strongly sympathize with TallTed's questions and concerns
[2022-02-08T17:56:20.287Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2022-02-08T17:56:26.753Z]	<rgrant>	queue check
[2022-02-08T17:56:31.965Z]	<manu>	TallTed: I know pay to play model is problematic, company has to be big enough to make stuff happen... also have to pay dues... it's an evil nonetheless, I don't have answers.
[2022-02-08T17:56:53.084Z]	<Orie>	Speaking as an AC rep, I pay for transparency, and accountability... and open standards work, conducted on a reasoanble timeline... all of which seem blocked by the LE issue.
[2022-02-08T17:56:57.838Z]	<mprorock>	ack manu
[2022-02-08T17:57:01.852Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2022-02-08T17:57:10.447Z]	<tzviya>	vq
[2022-02-08T17:57:11.297Z]	<bobwyman>	Some CCG members, like me, are not affiliated with deep-pockets employers who can pay the W3C fees.
[2022-02-08T17:57:11.817Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	+1 Ted, b/c the reason *I* participate here is to head off Unintended Consequences of misapplication of technology (standards) at the root level. Which is a very different motivation for other participation.
[2022-02-08T17:57:13.564Z]	<Anil_John>	q+
[2022-02-08T17:58:38.586Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Also, I sincerely appreciate Chris, David, Eric, Leonie, Tzviya  and Tantek for being here and speaking with us. I know this is a conversation in progress. And I thank you for listening to this community and perspective.
[2022-02-08T17:59:11.164Z]	<manu>	dsinger: One of the problems here is the pandemic, fall TPC, or spring meeting -- take questions from members -- lacking those meetings that's been harder to do
[2022-02-08T17:59:15.501Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2022-02-08T17:59:47.997Z]	<Orie>	I would suggest stop processing FOs and Charters until the future of the organization has been secured.
[2022-02-08T17:59:55.222Z]	<manu>	tzviya: I agree with what David said -- people aren't equipped with questions that need to be asked. Legal entity on spring agenda. It needs to be more than AC that's informed in office hours, we have to find a better way to get this information out. Perhaps send it to Chairs and forward it on.
[2022-02-08T18:00:17.792Z]	<manu>	mprorock: Can we stretch the meeting out a bit more? Can folks go past top of hour?
[2022-02-08T18:00:31.201Z]	<PL>	go for it
[2022-02-08T18:00:36.979Z]	<mprorock>	ack rgra
[2022-02-08T18:00:53.056Z]	<cwilso>	q+
[2022-02-08T18:01:00.182Z]	<manu>	rgrant: I thought IETF question was important, funding is existential. I didn't hear specific incompatibilities -- vague incompatibilities - I think that's a concern.
[2022-02-08T18:01:44.916Z]	<Orie>	IETF doesn't care about politics or feelings enough... maybe harsh, but true... see CEPC differences.
[2022-02-08T18:02:35.859Z]	<manu>	cwilso: I would raise as a specific thing, IETF model for patent policy is very different, a lot looser, there is nothing to prevent anyone from taking work to IETF, to not doing it at W3C. Progressively over time, we've been trying to ensure that W3C isn't a place where things get sucked in and can't get out -- can move work elsewhere, can move work to WHATWG... if IETF is a good match, go do that work at IETF. Where is the community that wants to work
[2022-02-08T18:02:35.938Z]	<manu>	on this? <-- that's the question. You have to respect patent policy and copyright, plenty of efforts wrt. IETF -- not interested in changing that, if IETF is the better location, I am not opposed to that.
[2022-02-08T18:02:41.559Z]	<mprorock>	ack Anil
[2022-02-08T18:02:46.608Z]	<manu>	mprorock: Those things are complementary.
[2022-02-08T18:02:46.831Z]	<tantek>	+1 strong agreement with cwilso, let's support communities choosing their own destination
[2022-02-08T18:02:49.176Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2022-02-08T18:03:00.143Z]	<mprorock>	ack cwil
[2022-02-08T18:03:27.588Z]	<manu>	Anil_John: I am a technical director at US Department of Homeland Security -- lot of things need to be fixed, but let me share why we chose why to engage at W3C for work in public interest.
[2022-02-08T18:04:15.996Z]	<manu>	Anil_John: Community Groups enabled anyone globally to provide input into incubation for things that could end up on standards track, important for us to have global technical audience to weigh in. Yes, it's difficult and noisy and messy, but it is of immense value to have a Community structure that provides input into that work.
[2022-02-08T18:04:43.645Z]	<manu>	Anil_johN: We liked that it was an IP protected environment, and having a path for going from there to official standardization at W3C... patent and royalty free is very important for public governments.
[2022-02-08T18:04:46.094Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	+1 Anil. The Community Group structure supports government innovation funding in a transparent and open way. Seeing this happen here at the w3C has given me renewed faith that government funding is an alternate viability to supporting technology innovations.
[2022-02-08T18:05:35.055Z]	<manu>	Anil_John: This is technology that's important for single actors and large governments. I hear concerns that are raised, I hear phrases like "Member-driven" -- there are many organizations out there that pretend to be standards organizations, but they are vendor-driven facades... W3C is not one of those.
[2022-02-08T18:06:09.451Z]	<mprorock>	+1 Anil - the "false" standard group is something we deal with a lot, especially in agriculture
[2022-02-08T18:06:13.067Z]	<Eric_Siow>	q+ to respond to Anil
[2022-02-08T18:06:29.168Z]	<manu>	Anil_John: As you go to member-driven, is it truly inclusive, is it truly for a broader public audience, or does it give more weight to sponsors/funders. Whatever governance structure for the future, funding is part and parcel, but if you want openness of web to persist, you need to balance between not just pay to play members be the ones that can have majority vote and block other work.
[2022-02-08T18:07:01.099Z]	<cwilso>	q+ to respond after eric
[2022-02-08T18:07:07.766Z]	<manu>	Anil_John: FInancial transaction transparency is very important, this is why DHS is here and we continue to champion W3C paths to standardization, how best to structure governance model moving forward?
[2022-02-08T18:07:20.446Z]	<mprorock>	ack Eric
[2022-02-08T18:07:22.686Z]	<manu>	mprorock: We see these "false standards orgs" in agriculture space daily.
[2022-02-08T18:07:26.500Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2022-02-08T18:08:06.859Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: Anil, thank you for your comments, it resonates with those of us that have been working really hard on this. Leonie has made a point earlier that we want to make sure that all technical work that members, everything we're used to in terms of technical development, innovation remains the same.
[2022-02-08T18:08:57.474Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: Speaking on behalf of Intel, we are one of the organizations that would be willing to consider helping to fund new legal entity. I can assure you that my organization is very conscientious of keeping the ecosystem healthy and having wide participation.
[2022-02-08T18:09:15.837Z]	<mprorock>	ack cwils
[2022-02-08T18:09:20.429Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: We do not want to get into a situation where it is perceived that we're taking ove rthe Web, a healthy ecosystem serving the public is the goal.
[2022-02-08T18:09:22.283Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2022-02-08T18:10:26.932Z]	<manu>	cwilso: To add to what Eric and Leonie said, it's important to understand -- two efforts in AB, legal entity work and Director-free effort. They are heavily related, but not exactly the same. Director has responsibilities about managing entity itself. Director also drive technical program, they are permanent member of TAG, that's where Formal Objections go today. We are trying to treat these as separate, things related to technical program, those have to
[2022-02-08T18:10:27.009Z]	<manu>	be non-preferential.
[2022-02-08T18:10:45.141Z]	<manu>	cwilso: We have to ensure that people are not "buying technical decisions" -- that would be bad, many of us think that's bad.
[2022-02-08T18:11:42.255Z]	<manu>	cwilso: The hard part is getting people to care and show up -- I'm particularly masochistic because I guess I keep showing up to this, Google has enough money to help me do that, but not to drive their technical agenda, we don't talk about technical agendas in Advisory Board, for eample, important to solve for that, come up w/ solutions for structure as well. People show up -- need to set up organization for success.
[2022-02-08T18:11:51.372Z]	<mprorock>	q?
[2022-02-08T18:11:51.466Z]	<manu>	cwilso: ... but we need to keep that separate from technical decision making.
[2022-02-08T18:12:09.637Z]	<tantek>	q+ to add that elected AB members participate as themselves, not as company representatives
[2022-02-08T18:12:17.158Z]	<manu>	mprorock: That is a great point to call out, there is a financial stake for Hosts... transparency around financial management is difficult.
[2022-02-08T18:13:45.141Z]	<Eric_Siow>	q+
[2022-02-08T18:13:52.414Z]	<mprorock>	ack tantek
[2022-02-08T18:14:24.781Z]	<bobwyman>	q+
[2022-02-08T18:14:25.576Z]	<manu>	tantek: To add to what Chris and Eric said, I want to make it clear, how do people end up on Advisory Board, there is an election every year where half of the AB is elected. People nominate... people don't need to be W3C members per sec (Invited Experts can be elected). People brought to AB are expected to provide their perspective NOT their company's perspective. If you look at AB, you can look at companies, but we're there. I have worked for Apple, Mozilla, Microsoft, I know what big corporation influence looks like, but have also done as individual, as a startup, it's really important that we keep playing field open, regardless of organization affiliation or perceived influence in that regard.
[2022-02-08T18:14:57.437Z]	<mprorock>	ack Eric_S
[2022-02-08T18:14:58.835Z]	<manu>	tantek: For everyone on AB, they are bringing their own expertise, their own value judgements, not bringing "this is our company policy". I don't know if folks were aware of that, but that's what we're bringing to AB.
[2022-02-08T18:15:28.979Z]	<rgrant>	bobwyman: tell us in text
[2022-02-08T18:15:41.051Z]	<mprorock>	thanks bob - please get Question in text
[2022-02-08T18:15:49.446Z]	<mprorock>	and / or on the list/github
[2022-02-08T18:16:19.085Z]	<manu>	Eric_Siow: Just to react to financial transparency, and add on to Tantek. I have a financial background, I'm not an engineer, at the AB, shocked at financial statement, none of it made sense to me. How can an organization be around for 25 years and not have financial reserves, if an economic downturn, org will be in trouble. From that perspective, whoever provides funding, foundation, ISOC, or volunteer companies, it makes sense to have oversight over
[2022-02-08T18:16:19.167Z]	<manu>	financial discipline.
[2022-02-08T18:16:37.319Z]	<bobwyman>	I'm not a member of W3C but, I've been working on this stuff longer than virtually anyone who is. While I can participate easily in IETF work, I'm always wondering what I'm "allowed" to do or see in the W3C...
[2022-02-08T18:16:38.740Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Thank you all.
[2022-02-08T18:17:06.771Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Thank you Mike for setting up this call.
[2022-02-08T18:17:10.244Z]	<manu>	mprorock: Thanks all for the conversation today, really great to have the AB here today -- good precedent to have this out in the open. This is a step in the right direction. Can't thank you enough, this is an important topic, looking forward to finding a way through this.
[2022-02-08T18:17:21.577Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	Great discussion, very interesting!
[2022-02-08T18:17:24.933Z]	<Eric_Siow>	Thank you for having us.
[2022-02-08T18:17:25.094Z]	<rgrant>	thx
[2022-02-08T18:17:27.788Z]	<Orie>	Thanks AB!
[2022-02-08T18:17:28.487Z]	<tantek>	Thanks for having us!
[2022-02-08T18:18:45.010Z]	<mprorock>	present+

