Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-05-02-vc-education/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-05-02-vc-education/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC for Education Task Force Transcript for 2022-05-02

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2022May/0000.html
Topics:
  1. IP Note
  2. Call Notes
  3. Introductions & Reintroductions
  4. Announcements & Reminders
  5. Internet Identity Workshop Overview
Organizer:
  Kerri Lemoie
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Kerri Lemoie, Stuart Freeman, Marty Reed, David Ward, Jeff Orgel, 
  Sharon Leu, Kimberly Linson, Simone Ravaoli, Taylor, Karl, Kayode 
  Ezike, Mahesh Balan - pocketcred.com, Deb Everhart, Matthias 
  Gottlieb, Phil L (P1), Phil Barker, Manu Sporny, Dmitri 
  Zagidulin, James Chartrand, Keith Kowal, Jim Kelly, John Kuo, Tim 
  Bouma, Sandro Cacciamani, Kaliya Young, Jim Goodell, Frank C 
  Cicio Jr, Gerard, Srijan, yashwardhan

<kerri_lemoie> Video of call can be accessed here: 
  https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-education-2022-05-02.mp4
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Kerri Lemoie:  Hey hello everybody Welcome to the Monday May 2nd 
  meeting of the verifiable credentials for Education task force my 
  name is Cary Illinois and I am a meeting moderator for today I'm 
  going to go through some boilerplate items to get us started and 
  then we will dig into our primary discussion which is just an 
  overview of her what happened at last week's internet identity 
  Workshop.

Topic: IP Note

Kerri Lemoie:  It's going to make a note about IP and anyone can 
  participate in these calls but keep in mind that all substitute 
  contributors to any of this work work items they must members of 
  the ccg with full IP are agreements that are assigned to ensure 
  that you have a W3 account and in sign that so I'm going to put a 
  link in the chat. [scribe assist by Kerri Lemoie]
Kerri Lemoie:   Where you can join.
Kerri Lemoie: Join: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
Kerri Lemoie:  And then I'm.
Kerri Lemoie: https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
Kerri Lemoie:  The w3c community contributor license agreement is 
  also going into the chat right now.

Topic: Call Notes

Kerri Lemoie:  The call notes these meetings are recorded and 
  then we also have a robot transcriber that is listening and and 
  shouldn't transcribing what we say we do this so that we have 
  archives of the meetings for those who miss them or want to look 
  back and see what was discussed we covered a lot of important 
  information in these calls and it's really helpful to have this 
  archive.
Kerri Lemoie:   Note that.
Kerri Lemoie:  Sometimes the the robot transcriber and doesn't 
  understand this it's pretty good it's getting better but if you 
  see something in the in the chat where the the robot has gone way 
  off track you can correct that which will help us get the minutes 
  out sooner and you can do that by putting in some substitution 
  which I will add to the chat right now so you would type S 
  forward slash forward slash correction.
Kerri Lemoie:   Word and then.
Kerri Lemoie:  Just like that huh that is in the check so if you 
  follow that that regular expression then the script will make 
  those Corrections for us which is very handy.
Kerri Lemoie:  And if I'm saver huge Time Saver he also note that 
  we use cues on these calls so that way everyone has a chance to 
  speak if you'd like to add yourself to the queue just type Q Plus 
  and you'll be added to the queue and then if you change your mind 
  you can type Q - and it will remove you from the queue when you 
  speak the moderator just me today would would acknowledge that 
  you have the floor so you know.
Kerri Lemoie:   That it's your turn.
Kerri Lemoie:  Okay let's move on to introductions and 
  reintroductions let's first go the introductions is there anyone 
  that knew today that would like to introduce themselves.

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

<kerri_lemoie> Mahesh has the floor
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Yeah I'm new to this group I had 
  the pleasure of meeting Carrie and iiw last week and my name is 
  Mahesh pollen I'm the CEO of pro Vici and we have a VC product 
  called pocket red so it's great to meet everyone thank you.
Kerri Lemoie:  Thank you mahesh maybe suddenly we could schedule 
  you to do a presentation on the cob.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Sure I'd be happy to do it and 
  also just a quick note Kerri I sent a note to Drummond read and 
  he said he'll be happy to come to this group to present ACDC for 
  Mongols presentation he has not posted it yet on the career coach 
  at so he's volunteered to do it so we can invite him sometime.
Kerri Lemoie:  Oh that's great thank you Drummond has come to 
  this club before so we'd be happy to have him here during guy W 
  will go over this later there was a session called AC/DC I didn't 
  not have a chance to attend it but I was told it would be really 
  useful for us this group to listen to and learn about so we are 
  we wanted to sort of follow up on that a little bit thank you.
Kerri Lemoie:  Do we have any other new members joining us today 
  or anybody who'd like to make a reintroduction or update on 
  something you're working on right now.

Topic: Announcements & Reminders

Kerri Lemoie: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
Kerri Lemoie:  If you change your mind feel free to queue 
  yourself and then we can we can get back to you then so this move 
  on to announcements and reminders just to note that you can 
  always see what is going on in the ccg group at this URL here 
  this is where announcements and meeting regular meetings are 
  posted tomorrow is the regular weekly noon Eastern CCD call which 
  everyone is invited to attend anyways invited to attend any of 
  the.
Kerri Lemoie:   Meetings actually.
Kerri Lemoie:  You can always check their to see what is going on 
  and also on the mailing list.
Kerri Lemoie:  And then a couple of a VC-EDU related updates that 
  I wanted to provide is people have been asking about what is 
  going on like what is the status of open badges 3.0 and CLR V2 
  and I'm should know that the release candidates should be ready 
  by early summer so sometime in June are there least candidate is 
  not final but it's going to provide the opportunity to start 
  piloting and for those of you who are new to this.
Kerri Lemoie:   Has 3 and sealer me too.
<manu_sporny> woo hoo!!! :)
Kerri Lemoie:  It's going to be directly aligned with verifiable 
  credentials and that's going to be a really interesting new 
  situation for us to Pilot I'm really very excited about it I know 
  many people have been waiting for it also note that in alignment 
  with this there's some work being done at the digital credential 
  Consortium to create an npm module for open badges 3 and so we 
  hope to have more news on that later this month.
Kerri Lemoie:   And that.
Kerri Lemoie:  Help me think now the pilots and building things 
  out.

Topic: Internet Identity Workshop Overview

Kerri Lemoie:  The queue is empty so I what I will do is just 
  start on that what we do is I can tell you a little bit about my 
  experiences at the internet identity workshop and then I'm 
  Dimitri will jump in and anybody else who was there for you can 
  feel free to queue yourself up or if you have any questions also 
  feel free to queue yourself up.
Kerri Lemoie:  Sue there were about 250 attendees and there's 
  pretty great it was amazing was for me to see people who I 
  haven't seen in a long time or so many who I never actually met 
  in person just because the last couple of years have been so 
  active that it was impossible to go to conferences and all these 
  new folks started converging in the space so it was amazing and 
  that the energy of the space really reflected that.
Kerri Lemoie:  And there's just all this excitement and.
Kerri Lemoie:  Talk and explain what they've been working on and 
  show what they've been working on in person and that is really a 
  fantastic I also felt that it's like reassuring to share space 
  with people who are working towards a Thomas common goal and then 
  environment where there's a lot of open dialogue and questions or 
  fostered so we really had this environment where where we could 
  just sit just talk about anything and there's no no dumb 
  questions and there are people there with all different levels of 
  experience.
Kerri Lemoie:   It's some very very.
<identitywoman> <3
Kerri Lemoie:  Experienced technologist and some folks who are 
  just very very new to the space I want to understand what was 
  going on and then made a very unique environment I think there's 
  some what kind of models what happens and bcig to and so I really 
  appreciated that I also learned that there are a lot of people in 
  the identity space that have been keeping an eye on this 
  community and they're very encouraging of the progress that we've 
  been making so I want you all to feel really good about that that 
  this work is really being noticed.
Kerri Lemoie:   East and in people paying attention because what 
  we're doing.
Kerri Lemoie:  Doing and they're really rooting for us to do well 
  here.
Kerri Lemoie:  And so I hope it works is that over three days 
  there were well over I think 160 hour-long sessions the iaw 
  follows an open space principles methodology which means that 
  participants are encouraged to move around and find Opportunities 
  where they would feel like they would learn the most real to 
  share the most so it's sort of like minion conferences where 
  sessions are proposed to beginning of each day and then they're 
  scheduled.
Kerri Lemoie:  I'm for the day I'm the wall.
Kerri Lemoie:  The paper which is great and then are you can see 
  what was going on and you could bounce around to whatever session 
  made sense.
Kerri Lemoie:  Azimuth are like so many sessions going on at once 
  there is a.
Kerri Lemoie:  Something like eight sessions at a time every day 
  so like several times a day so it was impossible to go to all of 
  them and I'm still like reading on reading through notes and 
  catching up on all of the things that I missed.
<taylor> Meant to mention for any EU friends. LEF will be 
  attending/presenting at WHEC. 
  https://www.unesco.org/en/education/higher-education/2022-world-conference
Kerri Lemoie:  I'm Dimitri I was going to see if you wanted to 
  sort of do some reflecting on know your experience and a sessions 
  that you attended.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Sure so yeah so plus want everything that you 
  said it's okay I'll mention a couple things that they were 
  takeaways for me that really struck me one is.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Interest from so continued interest from the 
  wider than the community so not just the central identifiers 
  verify credentials but also the like open ID Foundation community 
  so Microsoft and Ping Identity and yes.com and talk time and a 
  bunch of other similar right so a lot of sessions where about 
  opening day for verifiable presentation.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Sigh up which is.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It should open it to connect and for the first 
  time.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Since the conversation started we also now 
  have interest from the browser makers from all of the Chrome Dev 
  team to add support for decentralized identity wallet mediation 
  into the browser itself now.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It's actually rolling that out will take 
  things to the browser will take will take changes to the 
  operating system but I think it's interesting to highlight that 
  the conversation is widening its surface right like more and more 
  Industries and companies are finding out about our corner of the 
  world and that comes with its usual set of opportunities and 
  threats but don't.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I'll just say for the moment that bro.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Adding wallet mediation support which makes 
  our job of Building Systems working with verify credentials much 
  easier so that part is good I really enjoyed the verifiable 
  credentials in education panel that you and I hosted that was.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Doesn't ask a lot of people as good questions 
  about our community and hopefully we'll we'll see them on on 
  these calls.
Kerri Lemoie:  We had a that was it that was a great session 
  Dimitri we had a we had a full room and we had a lot of great 
  questions about backwards compatibility but also some like 
  challenging discussions right about adoption and use cases.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah yeah exactly exactly.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  No please please.
Kerri Lemoie: GAIN: https://gainforum.org/
Kerri Lemoie:  Now one of the things we touched upon in there to 
  sorry to interrupt or is we've been sort of like looking into 
  like asking questions about governance and issue Registries and 
  someone provided an example of gain took down that links I 
  thought that I put that in here anybody can shouldn't checking 
  that out.
Kerri Lemoie:  I actually had called that session to do an update 
  and what was going on in the space to let folks know but also I 
  really am trying to figure out what we could do about an issue 
  Registries and governance in the space so as try to like gather 
  information in there but we actually spent a lot of time talking 
  about use cases which which is interesting because I think that 
  reflects more of what happens outside this community than what we 
  do in here even though we've been working on that use cases 
  doctor.
Kerri Lemoie:   Ever we are also embroiled in our use cases that.
Kerri Lemoie:  Newer new folks come to our space I think they 
  question what is going on and so that was a interesting and 
  eye-opening discussion for me for sure.
<identitywoman> Disco.xyz!!
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Absolutely and I'll add one last thing I 
  noticed Marty is on the call so love to hear from from him as 
  well I'm sorry not on the call on the Queue is that there's 
  there's also a lot more energy from the Web3 community so we saw 
  a couple of companies and a couple of demos and presentations 
  focusing on basically Bridging the blockchain sign in with 
  etherium type of thing.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  With dissent translated.
Kerri Lemoie:  Yeah he go to hear him clearly okay.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Our society Community yeah like disco oh and 
  Kaliya is here as well so that'll be great to hear Kaliya as 
  usually put on a fantastic you and your colleagues put on a 
  fantastic conference Marty go ahead.
<sharon_leu> It was a great conference!
Marty Reed:  Yeah so just a couple of quick takeaways from the 
  sessions one you know on that point of registration registries 
  you know it's obvious that a lot of a lot of folks have really 
  you know I think last year's progress progress versus this year's 
  progress is a 5x its people are moving faster and really building 
  some real things.
Marty Reed:  One of the.
Marty Reed:  Real things being built glice I felt like had a very 
  had a big presence there and they've really done some some really 
  good work around building out this legal identity legal entity 
  identity framework so highly recommend folks take a look at what 
  glyph' is doing I think they're piloting and some production 
  level legal entity.
Marty Reed:   Identity work.
Kerri Lemoie: https://www.gleif.org/en
Marty Reed:  There and then and then also just.
Marty Reed:  What we done here in VC-EDU I feel like it's still 
  very very forward thinking and what the actual use cases are 
  actual deliverable of you know how do we transmit interoperable 
  education records between systems and I heard a lot of folks talk 
  about interoperability and actually being able to to do it.
Marty Reed:  So the one of the very interesting things was 
  Charles laner I don't think he's here but I said in one of my 
  opening statements you know show me your verifiable credential 
  and I'll show you mine and he had printed cards with I believe it 
  was 18 different formats of verifiable credentials with QR codes 
  and definitions so it's really cool to see.
Marty Reed:  Real things and working on that real 
  interoperability so those are just a couple of Reflections and 
  great job Kerry and Dimitri your sessions were awesome and happy 
  to contribute to those.
<identitywoman> I also learned about new standards org "more 
  punkrock than DIF" the Chain Agnostic Standards Alliance
Kerri Lemoie:  Thank you Marty you know I also speaking of 
  Charles those of you may not know him but I was so happy to meet 
  him because he has been supporting the infrastructure and really 
  just taking good care of us him along with Manu I think is also 
  here and it was so great to meet him I was just such a pleasure 
  really.
<manu_sporny> Hooray for cel!
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Kaliya do you want to say a few words like 
  what struck you about the conference.
https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CASA
<taylor> Turns out humans still like meeting humans :)
Kaliya Young:  Sir sorry sure it was really intense like people 
  not seeing each other for two years out of this whole kind of 
  intensity to things we way over subscribe sessions relative to 
  rooms on Wednesday.
Kaliya Young:  We're definitely looking at renting more space in 
  the museum which the maybe we can but we didn't we had over we 
  close registration at about 250 a week before and we.
Kaliya Young:  We ended up at.
Kaliya Young:  280 Anyways because some people had to be let in 
  and we had 60 people 60-plus people on a waiting list and they 
  all put themselves on the waiting list in that last week so.
Kaliya Young:  Was kind of sucky to turn people away but just 
  didn't have the space and we didn't know we need the space 
  because nobody signed up ahead of time right so.
Kaliya Young:  I think it was really great to see like bridge-e 
  web three companies come like the Disco folks were great Spruce 
  ad was great.
<kerri_lemoie> Kepler from Spruce: 
  https://www.spruceid.com/kepler
Kaliya Young:  There was some you know people who were just 
  finding our communities and women who are like from Wyoming super 
  into nft he's like I'm going to nft me or like you know of course 
  they ran a session I don't know how it goes I should go look up 
  the notes but you know I think there are some new you know new 
  interesting activity and real progress on.
Kaliya Young:  No other activity and also communicating like just 
  people kind of connecting and.
Kaliya Young:  Like bridging some gaps like building 
  understanding I think the MD MBA was there there was three a 
  people I was it was incredible to have them in the rooms and 
  listening to all of what we're doing I think there's genuine.
Kaliya Young:  Sincere interest on the part of folks who are 
  working on the Amba standards not the a standard is that mdl 
  standards within ISO to really bridge bridge between their work 
  and our work.
Kaliya Young:  I know Andrew Hughes ran a session called what's 
  your wish list for the next generation of mdl stuff.
Kaliya Young:  I is the chair one of the chairs of the diff 
  interop working group are going to invite him to come in.
Kaliya Young:  Lead the kind of the same session but outside of 
  IIW because obviously only people who made it to his session at 
  that particular time and iiw contributed to that list so that 
  feels like a really.
Kaliya Young:  Earlier process and you know I also watched like 
  people who have done the best inside their countries to try and 
  get engaged with the mdl work and explain that how they were 
  unable to successfully engage and the mdl folks being like okay 
  we're going to figure out how to get you in the working group 
  like so that was heartening like they weren't just like.
Kaliya Young:  They were really sincerely interested in hearing 
  from us and welcoming participation.
Kaliya Young:  I'm happy too I don't I ran a session on 
  conspiracy theories I'm really interested in how we as.
Kaliya Young:  Not just the folks who show up at iiw but in a 
  much broader swath of like folks who work on identity can 
  potentially engage in.
Kaliya Young:  Collaborative work to reduce the conspiracy theory 
  Noise by putting out good information they think it's going to 
  hurt all of us really badly if we don't.
Kaliya Young:  Distinguish the different types of digital 
  identity work differently they're not one thing.
Kerri Lemoie:  I really like I like that session is it reinforced 
  really how early it is in the space but also the responsibility 
  that we have to create safe technology that's good for humans but 
  also provide some language and and support to increase that 
  understanding and I kind of felt like when you and I did the 
  sorry I did any 101 the same kind of like feeling came out also 
  with that Chris Kelly from diff for me there is this overlapping 
  like hey we have language.
Kerri Lemoie:   It's to think about here and context.
Kerri Lemoie:  And support that we really need to start 
  considering if we want to see more adoption and better 
  understanding right.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you so much kaliya if see nobody else on 
  the kill when I add a couple more couple more thoughts that 
  really struck me also speaking of web 30 bridging Technologies 
  can help but mention our own demo so I was there with my 
  colleague from hyper construct and the X are foundation so we're 
  doing a lot of work in the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Machine learning augmented reality.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Out these base combining it with their fiber 
  potentials you Central identifiers wallets so we demoed basically 
  a credential Handler API chappie for short web wallet inside a 
  virtual reality.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It's also very much a.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Bridging two and three both in the end of T 
  and Valentin sense but also in the virtual in the metaverse sense 
  as the jargon goes these days so that was interesting but what I 
  wanted to mention was a couple more things one was it was really 
  great to see that there's a lot of increasing interest in json-ld 
  and linked data serialization of Republican engines from a wider 
  community so now not just the user.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   No Suspects.
<identitywoman> Sam Curan did a session "How can we make JSON-LD 
  suck less" :)
Dmitri Zagidulin:  But also a lot of the Hyper Ledger Indy folks 
  so like Sam Curren for example hosted a session that's like all 
  right what can we do to make this an oldie credentials and less 
  painful to work with as developers and there's there's a it 
  filled the room there's like 20 plus people there from.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Somebody's not not typically working with 
  linked data and all the suggestions were really good in ones 
  that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I've often thought about we basically boils 
  down to hey let's lock down contexts cryptographically let's 
  let's add digest and hash links and but of course the 
  overwhelming one was hey we need more tooling specifically for 
  developers creating json-ld contacts for the first time.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   And I say.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Master kariya know you've been working on the 
  open badges version 3 contacts and I've been working on a couple 
  and that's certainly.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Or Tooling in that area would certainly be a 
  welcome sight of course.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Some similarly there was there's some 
  interesting emerging.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  For bridging standards coming out in the area 
  of authorization so we've got Spruce ID team and a couple of.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Well companies in the secure data storage 
  working group in the specifically the task force that was 
  previously identity hubs and is now been renamed to decentralize 
  web notes so that's Daniel Buckner his team and a couple of 
  Allied companies.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Form of authorization capabilities called you 
  cans and there is.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Some of them were proposing a standard that 
  basically Bridges Z capital D authorization capabilities for 
  length data and you cans into sort of translated before Nicole 
  and I always like to see Bridge Technologies like that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Do we have any questions from.
Kerri Lemoie: https://diddirectory.com/
Kerri Lemoie:  A while later I Gathering up some questions I have 
  a couple of references that I gathered and I can share one came 
  out of a created did in five minutes which is that the did 
  directory and put that on the chart so this is like a very easy 
  way to look up dudes in the registry.
Kerri Lemoie:  A friendly easy to read so I may appreciate 
  keeping that and you bookmark list.
Kerri Lemoie:  And then the other one is is go did it.
Kerri Lemoie: https://godiddy.com/
Kerri Lemoie:  So Diddy is something created to this here in the 
  chat for you so you can look at it when I talk about it it's a 
  it's a hosted platform that where you can create resolve update 
  and activate it and includes Universal resolver Universal 
  register and a wallet service so you can manage dids and keys as 
  well as I as a versioning service so this is something worth 
  checking out even if.
Kerri Lemoie:   If you don't use this.
Kerri Lemoie:  Read the docs to learn more about how did work 
  because there's a lot of information in the documentation I 
  haven't tried using this yet but I'm excited to mess around with 
  it a little bit to see if it can be useful.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Gary I just noticed Kimberly is here 
  and I was wondering could I put you on the spot I'm really 
  curious and we were one of the co-chairs of the ccg like what 
  your thoughts were attending iwn and what they do is sort of.
Kimberly Linson:  Yeah you know I'm happy to be on the spot and I 
  were going to do this tomorrow again and sort of the bigger wider 
  group and so I've been it's been interesting to sort of hear this 
  discussion and think about sort of what we might what I might 
  want to bring up tomorrow for me.
Kimberly Linson:  It was a lot of what has been said but but the 
  community was really powerful for me just the sense of this 
  common dream around identity and all of our I don't think I 
  really understood before I got there how vast a concept that is 
  from from the social and philosophical underpinning.
Kimberly Linson:   Going on.
Kimberly Linson:  Paintings of identity I went to colonias 
  session on her book around the domains of identity and that that 
  kind of thinking which I find really powerful all the way to you 
  know very very technical and an exciting Innovation that's 
  happening around how we can we can bring this these things to 
  life and so that was really impactful.
Kimberly Linson:   For me.
Kimberly Linson:  No one of the truthfully one of the most 
  impactful things that I went to was on Wednesday morning we had a 
  time to just gather as women in this space and you know I mean in 
  all honesty I mean I don't know what the numbers were I'd be 
  interested to know what the percentage of women at the conference 
  was but it's I think it's growing it seems like they're the 
  circle that we had on Wednesday morning was pretty large.
Kimberly Linson:   But still.
<taylor> Thx @kerri - lol godiddy 😂
Kimberly Linson:  Minority in in the room and and listening to 
  again sort of I guess the theme for me is this is is the varied 
  and multifaceted ways that people are are are involved in 
  identity that came out very clearly for me in in those in that in 
  that Circle and just the the ways that people are doing our.
Kimberly Linson:  Extraordinary and I think one of the things the 
  other things that sort of came out for me was you know I've been 
  living in this verifiable credentials and self Sovereign identity 
  world and and and I am a believer but I hadn't really been given 
  the opportunity to sort of hear some of the other side and what 
  some of the folks that aren't sure about this kind of technology 
  and bringing it into.
Kimberly Linson:   To their world like that like that was.
Kimberly Linson:  The again I think it speaks so positively to 
  the community there that those opinions and ideas can be really 
  reflected in a in a very collegial way and so that was that was 
  sort of my other big big takeaway so I'm hoping Kalia and I see 
  us on the Q now I'm hoping she's going to chime in with some 
  thoughts about that too.
Kerri Lemoie:  Thanks Kimberly Kimberly I'm clear before.
Kaliya Young:  Yeah that thanks for mentioning like like 
  traditionally at IW in personally posted what we just called 
  women's breakfast on Wednesday morning at 8:00 a.m. like an hour 
  before the conference starts when we everybody's free to come and 
  have breakfast and you know I chatted with Heidi about that 
  afterwards and it used to be.
Kaliya Young:   We only had like.
Kaliya Young:  One of the little tables inside the like in the 
  main space those kind of rounds that fit like 8 to 10 people and 
  then we got big enough we had to go into space f which is like a 
  bigger conference room with a table and then of course because of 
  covid and we're eating we like moved it onto the balcony outside 
  and it was really packed and it was the most number of women ever 
  I think.
Kaliya Young:   Think big.
Kaliya Young:  The a reason it was larger it was the most women 
  ever I believe of and IW in a reason it was larger with Spruce ID 
  specifically hosted a diversity and inclusion scholarship for the 
  first time we gave people money to get to I a w so we flew 
  Milwaukee who's been a part of the community from Togo and we 
  also put out the call.
Kaliya Young:   All to the women and identity.
Kaliya Young:  Mailing list and people basically applied to get 
  either a free tour free ticket and Sonny to get there and I think 
  we had six six or seven women come on that scholarship so that 
  was a really big success in terms of expanding who could be there 
  I think we're going to try and invite more corporate sponsorship 
  of.
Kaliya Young:  Jen money so that we can do even more because we 
  had to turn a few people away we just didn't have enough money 
  for that but.
Kaliya Young:  That's great and thanks for mentioning my book 
  I'll put a link to the core domains of identity that are in a PDF 
  like a four page PDF that you can read and then if you want you 
  can buy the book I wrote it as my Master's thesis and that 
  identity management and security program at UT Austin but I think 
  it's I think it's really I wrote it because there wasn't.
Kaliya Young:  How different different domains are and that if we 
  just keep pulling all of identity into one big blob will never 
  solve it so I'll stop there I see there's someone else in the 
  queue.
Kerri Lemoie:  That's great thank you.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you so much and similarly Sharon would 
  you want to say a few words like what your takeaways were.
Sharon Leu:  I'm sure I'll say something just more on a personal 
  note I guess I feel like it was my first IW and I felt like a kid 
  who like studied like French for like four years in high school 
  and four years in college and finally went to France for the 
  first time and like while like I recognized all of the vocabulary 
  words being used it was a little overwhelming to hear them being 
  used like sequential e and.
Sharon Leu:   Sentences and also like.
<identitywoman> <3
<taylor> 🇫🇷
Sharon Leu:  To string together ideas so I think that it was 
  definitely like dive into the deep end learning for me but I 
  think that I really appreciated how patient everyone was like 
  explaining things to me when I asked a lot of questions so I 
  would highly recommend it if no one if anyone hasn't gone to just 
  go for it.
Kerri Lemoie:  It was great I kind of felt that way too even 
  though I probably have dug into it a little bit more I still 
  there's just so much more that I was exposed to in person and I 
  just hadn't been ever.
Kerri Lemoie:  My husband may be calling you to since you were 
  there that's where we met you tell us a little bit about your 
  experience.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Sure yeah and it was also my first 
  iiw to go on-site and it was a fabulous experience I had already 
  done the remote once a couple of times and what post interesting 
  for me was just the explosion of how to get verifiable 
  credentials out there and production right there are so many 
  approaches.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com:  for example I had.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Action we're in you know it's not 
  just did Cam right open ID connect folks were there all over and 
  people were trying to get this technology put out in various 
  different ways because of the key issues or adoption so I it was 
  interesting to see new approaches that are really I mean these 
  guys had taken I attended a session I forget the exact one.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Straight back here and it was 
  interesting to see that they had taken a cup I and then modified 
  it so that it can actually do open ID connect and you know so on 
  and so forth so it was really eye-opening for me to see the 
  various approaches and just like I think Dmitri mentioned it was 
  high was in another session where the Google guys were there and 
  they were extremely.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com:  Lee actually.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Snow was a person who headed this 
  and he had talked about the NASCAR problem with wallets you know 
  if you have 18 wallets how do we decide and make it easy for 
  people to actually select it and the Google person who is there 
  was very keen on understanding the issue and trying to see if 
  there is a way in which they can solve it from a phone 
  perspective and so on so so it was really.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com:  really excellent.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: To see some of these you know 
  interactions and the community coming together to really solve 
  these problems so that was the most amazing thing for me and of 
  course one of the best sessions that I attended which is what I 
  mentioned initially was AC/DC for modules I think it is 
  applicable to this audience and it would be great to get you no 
  drama.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com:  want to come here at all and I.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Amazing sessions that I attended 
  and actually picked up quite a few things just in that one hour 
  so somebody stood up and said that the conference was worth that 
  10,000 dollar education kind of value and I would endorse that.
Kerri Lemoie:  I have saved a really put you on the spot here but 
  would you mind just sort of doing a brief overview of that I'm 
  just just a few sentences to tell us what it was about.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Yeah so I think it all really I 
  think it would be better if you know I don't want to kind of give 
  up because it was just my first introduction I would rather if I 
  had Drummond's PowerPoint carry I would be more comfortable so 
  that I don't mess something up it was my first exposure so.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Said and it takes us a while to 
  get drama died be happy to walk through his seven points so but I 
  would need to lean on his very nice PowerPoint so yeah sorry.
<identitywoman> I can share the new Hub we have for sharing at 
  the conference.
Kerri Lemoie:  No no that's okay we'll make that happen.
Kerri Lemoie:  Hey Kaliyayou have the floor.
Kaliya Young:  Sir I am I thought I could share the new we have 
  an inner because we were online for two years for for Aya W as we 
  used keycode shot as the online Forum like the way we navigated 
  open space we continued using Kiko this time I'm not for hosting 
  the sessions you can see all the sponsors here these are 180.
Kaliya Young:   Three participants that we.
Kaliya Young:  But when you go in.
Kaliya Young:  They actually have each of the agendas is there 
  for each of the days and you can go there and we put all the 
  notes forms in here so it's a new way to do notes we didn't 
  invite people to email them to us although if you really wanted 
  to could but you can through this go and access the Google Doc 
  notes for particular session.
Kaliya Young:   Ian so.
Kaliya Young:  We have the capacity to real-time multi-person 
  notes creation.
Kaliya Young:  So that's that's a key and also folks who went to 
  the conference can see that the sessions and more people can 
  contribute and all the nodes will get moved into the public Wiki 
  which is sort of where the notes live permanently but this was a 
  great something I thought was new and different that was good 
  about you know having gone online and come back in person.
Kaliya Young:  How do I stop sharing.
Kerri Lemoie:  Yeah that worked out really well clear do you have 
  the link to the public archive from the previous sessions candy.
Kaliya Young: https://iiw.idcommons.net/Main_Page
Kaliya Young:  Yeah iiw.idcommons.net I'll put the chat in the 
  top so that's where you can go and see all of the notes of every 
  previous IW back to iw7.
Kerri Lemoie:  That's awesome thank you.
Kerri Lemoie:  I know how much hard work goes into into hosting 
  this we really do appreciate it is a great event hopefully you 
  get to make it to the 12 November 2.
Kaliya Young:  I'll see to and I think this is really important 
  as we are considering what special topics we should hose like 
  mini half day like online virtual iws big iiw still always in 
  person but these are more like you know if we would be totally 
  we'd be totally down if this community wanted to have like a.
Kaliya Young:   You know.
Kaliya Young:  And education special topic half day.
Kaliya Young:  You know between now and the virtual main iaw are 
  not the purpose of them you know what I mean the in-person IW let 
  me know.
Kerri Lemoie:  Yeah that'd be great let's see if we can figure 
  that out extinct.
Kaliya Young:  I'm Kimberly that's a topic to put forward 
  tomorrow at the main ccg maybe at the end which is that we are 
  welcoming ideas for.
Kaliya Young:   You know.
Kaliya Young:  Minimally to we did one last year on the business 
  of SSI and I forget what the finalized but you know up to four or 
  five even if there was demand and sort of clear sub topic areas 
  that would have a critical mass of like you know 50 people.
Kerri Lemoie:  Kimberly you have the floor.
Kimberly Linson:  I was just going to ask Aaliyah what was the 
  best way to like I would definitely bring that up tomorrow so 
  what is the best way for people to.
Kimberly Linson:  You're going to submit those ideas like.
Kaliya Young:  Let's go question I mean I think if people named 
  them on the call we can like I'm planning to be there and we can 
  come and I'll be happy to put my email in or whatever works for 
  folks to reach out yeah.
Kimberly Linson:  And and are you are you for sure that that 
  November will be in person again.
Kimberly Linson:  I wasn't sure if that decision had been made 
  holy.
Kaliya Young:  Nope nothing's for sure and covid I don't I'm I 
  mean we're going to have a kind of team meeting probably in early 
  June and sort of assess I mean my.
Kaliya Young:  We worked really hard to find.
Kaliya Young:  They liked the museum is booked booked and we 
  worked hard to find days we have to make a firm decision two 
  months out.
Kaliya Young:  It is the week I think it's the week before 
  American Thanksgiving.
Kaliya Young:  I don't know really I mean Our intention is to be 
  in person we've booked the museum.
Kerri Lemoie:  Cool thank you.
Kerri Lemoie:  Does anybody have any any questions or comments 
  about IW and.
Kerri Lemoie:  No I'm for the next couple of weeks we are working 
  on agenda items and we will announce them soon they will probably 
  be related to wallets could leave the next two weeks and then we 
  just need to sort of a check in with folks and make sure they're 
  ready so we will send out an agenda this Friday if you have 
  anything you would like to present you like to be in the agenda 
  for a call don't hesitate to reach out.
Kerri Lemoie:  And also know that we are working on a sewer 
  working on these cases document and also working towards updating 
  the recommendations documents so that we can sort of get in time 
  with the open Badges and C LR V 2 releases so lots of good stuff 
  coming up lots of topics to cover in the next few months savitri 
  and Simoni do you have anything else add before we sign off.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  No except that I hope that one of those topics 
  who will be a their fiber credentials display for wallets 
  proposal about it though.
<sharon_leu> Me three!
Kerri Lemoie:  YouTube let's do that.
<taylor> Thanks all… this was my iiw fomo antidote.
Kerri Lemoie:  Hey everybody well that's end a little bit early 
  today then hope you all have a great week thanks for joining us.
<sharon_leu> Thanks!
<identitywoman> Thank you!
<frank_c_cicio_jr> thanks
