[2022-05-02T15:00:24.217Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:00:24.218Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2022May/0000.html
[2022-05-02T15:00:24.219Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie>  Video of call can be accessed here: https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-education-2022-05-02.mp4
[2022-05-02T15:00:24.220Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	chair: Kerri_Lemoie
[2022-05-02T15:00:27.397Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:00:34.107Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:00:35.328Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:00:50.082Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:01:07.118Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:01:22.587Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:02:46.740Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:02:47.068Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:03:02.393Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:03:02.490Z]	<Karl>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:03:03.970Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:03:41.867Z]	<Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:04:20.487Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-05-02T15:04:20.487Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2022-05-02T15:04:27.672Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:04:53.210Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:04:59.915Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey hello everybody Welcome to the Monday May 2nd meeting of the verifiable credentials for Education task force my name is Cary Illinois and I am a meeting moderator for today I'm going to go through some boilerplate items to get us started and then we will dig into our primary discussion which is just an overview of her what happened at last week's internet identity Workshop.
[2022-05-02T15:05:04.137Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:05:15.938Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:05:15.939Z]	<Transcriber>	Topic: IP Note
[2022-05-02T15:05:24.306Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Kerri_Lemoie: It's going to make a note about IP and anyone can participate in these calls but keep in mind that all substitute contributors to any of this work work items they must members of the ccg with full IP are agreements that are assigned to ensure that you have a W3 account and in sign that so I'm going to put a link in the chat.
[2022-05-02T15:05:24.594Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  where you can join.
[2022-05-02T15:05:25.525Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:05:27.846Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Join: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2022-05-02T15:05:32.708Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And then I'm.
[2022-05-02T15:05:38.851Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2022-05-02T15:05:39.358Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:05:39.732Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The w3c community contributor license agreement is also going into the chat right now.
[2022-05-02T15:06:07.307Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:06:07.308Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Topic: Call Notes
[2022-05-02T15:06:09.191Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The call notes these meetings are recorded and then we also have a robot transcriber that is listening and and shouldn't transcribing what we say we do this so that we have archives of the meetings for those who miss them or want to look back and see what was discussed we covered a lot of important information in these calls and it's really helpful to have this archive.
[2022-05-02T15:06:09.515Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  note that.
[2022-05-02T15:06:40.329Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Sometimes the the robot transcriber and doesn't understand this it's pretty good it's getting better but if you see something in the in the chat where the the robot has gone way off track you can correct that which will help us get the minutes out sooner and you can do that by putting in some substitution which I will add to the chat right now so you would type S forward slash forward slash wrong word.
[2022-05-02T15:06:40.643Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  word and then.
[2022-05-02T15:06:42.674Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	s/wrong word/correction
[2022-05-02T15:06:57.074Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Just like that huh that is in the check so if you follow that that regular expression then the script will make those Corrections for us which is very handy.
[2022-05-02T15:07:02.343Z]	<Keith>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:07:12.555Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2022-05-02T15:07:17.651Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2022-05-02T15:07:28.073Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And if I'm saver huge Time Saver he also note that we use cues on these calls so that way everyone has a chance to speak if you'd like to add yourself to the queue just type Q Plus and you'll be added to the queue and then if you change your mind you can type Q - and it will remove you from the queue when you speak the moderator just me today would would acknowledge that you have the floor so you know.
[2022-05-02T15:07:28.381Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  that it's your turn.
[2022-05-02T15:07:41.118Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay let's move on to introductions and reintroductions let's first go the introductions is there anyone that knew today that would like to introduce themselves.
[2022-05-02T15:07:41.119Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2022-05-02T15:08:06.836Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Mahesh has the floor
[2022-05-02T15:08:08.884Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Yeah I'm new to this group I had the pleasure of meeting Carrie and iiw last week and my name is Mahesh pollen I'm the CEO of pro Vici and we have a VC product called pocket red so it's great to meet everyone thank you.
[2022-05-02T15:08:16.144Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you my hair maybe suddenly we could schedule you to do a presentation on the cob.
[2022-05-02T15:08:20.132Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:08:29.831Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	s/my hair/mahesh/
[2022-05-02T15:08:33.493Z]	<Jim_Kelly>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:08:45.041Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Sure I'd be happy to do it and also just a quick note Carrie I sent a note to Drummond read and he said he'll be happy to come to this group to present a CDC for Mongols presentation he has not posted it yet on the career coach at so he's volunteered to do it so we can invite him sometime.
[2022-05-02T15:08:53.049Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:09:08.682Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:09:09.702Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Oh that's great thank you German has come to this club before so we'd be happy to have him here during guy W will go over this later there was a session called AC/DC I didn't not have a chance to attend it but I was told it would be really useful for us this group to listen to and learn about so we are we wanted to sort of follow up on that a little bit thank you.
[2022-05-02T15:09:20.268Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Do we have any other new members joining us today or anybody who'd like to make a reintroduction or update on something you're working on right now.
[2022-05-02T15:09:23.921Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	s/Carrie/Kerri/
[2022-05-02T15:09:25.493Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:09:48.728Z]	<Phil_Barker>	s/German/Drummond/
[2022-05-02T15:07:41.119Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2022-05-02T15:09:48.793Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2022-05-02T15:10:03.169Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: If you change your mind feel free to kill yourself and then we can we can get back to you then so this move on to announcements and reminders just to note that you can always see what is going on in the ccg group at this URL here this is where announcements and meeting regular meetings are posted tomorrow is the regular weekly noon Eastern CCD call which everyone is invited to attend anyways invited to attend any of the.
[2022-05-02T15:10:03.493Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  meetings actually.
[2022-05-02T15:10:03.914Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	s/a CDC/ACDC
[2022-05-02T15:10:08.231Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: You can always check their to see what is going on and also on the mailing list.
[2022-05-02T15:10:40.923Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And then a couple of a VC AG related updates that I wanted to provide is people have been asking about what is going on like what is the status of open badges 3.0 and CLR V2 and I'm should know that the release candidates should be ready by early summer so sometime in June are there least candidate is not final but it's going to provide the opportunity to start piloting and for those of you who are new to this.
[2022-05-02T15:10:41.310Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  has 3 and sealer me too.
[2022-05-02T15:10:52.336Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	woo hoo!!! :)
[2022-05-02T15:11:07.166Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	s/VC AG/VC-EDU
[2022-05-02T15:11:09.069Z]	<Taylor>	s/kill yourself/queue yourself
[2022-05-02T15:11:12.354Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: It's going to be directly aligned with verifiable credentials and that's going to be a really interesting new situation for us to Pilot I'm really very excited about it I know many people have been waiting for it also note that in alignment with this there's some work being done at the digital credential Consortium to create an npm module for open badges 3 and so we hope to have more news on that later this month.
[2022-05-02T15:11:12.677Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  and that.
[2022-05-02T15:11:16.429Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Help me think now the pilots and building things out.
[2022-05-02T15:11:18.557Z]	<Tim_Bouma>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:11:18.830Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:07:41.119Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Topic: Internet Identity Workshop Overview
[2022-05-02T15:11:46.661Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The queue is empty so I what I will do is just start on that what we do is I can tell you a little bit about my experiences at the internet identity workshop and then I'm Dimitri will jump in and anybody else who was there for you can feel free to cure yourself up or if you have any questions also feel free to keep yourself up.
[2022-05-02T15:12:21.096Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Sue there were about 250 attendees and there's pretty great it was amazing was for me to see people who I haven't seen in a long time or so many who I never actually met in person just because the last couple of years have been so active that it was impossible to go to conferences and all these new folks started converging in the space so it was amazing and that the energy of the space really reflected that.
[2022-05-02T15:12:21.772Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And there's just all this excitement and.
[2022-05-02T15:12:26.845Z]	<Sandro_Cacciamani>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:12:48.394Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	s/He was empty/Queue is empty
[2022-05-02T15:12:55.514Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Talk and explain what they've been working on and show what they've been working on in person and that is really a fantastic I also felt that it's like reassuring to share space with people who are working towards a Thomas common goal and then environment where there's a lot of open dialogue and questions or fostered so we really had this environment where where we could just sit just talk about anything and there's no no dumb questions and there are people there with all different levels of experience.
[2022-05-02T15:12:55.833Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  it's some very very.
[2022-05-02T15:13:00.131Z]	<IdentityWoman>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:13:24.601Z]	<IdentityWoman>	<3
[2022-05-02T15:13:29.934Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Experienced technologist and some folks who are just very very new to the space I want to understand what was going on and then made a very unique environment I think there's some what kind of models what happens and bcig to and so I really appreciated that I also learned that there are a lot of people in the identity space that have been keeping an eye on this community and they're very encouraging of the progress that we've been making so I want you all to feel really good about that that this work is really being noticed.
[2022-05-02T15:13:30.444Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  East and in people paying attention because what we're doing.
[2022-05-02T15:13:34.719Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Doing and they're really rooting for us to do well here.
[2022-05-02T15:13:36.961Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:13:47.781Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	s/cure yourself up/queue yourself up
[2022-05-02T15:13:58.081Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	s/keep yourself up/queue yourself up
[2022-05-02T15:14:12.463Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And so I hope it works is that over three days there were well over I think 160 hour-long sessions the iaw follows an open space principles methodology which means that participants are encouraged to move around and find Opportunities where they would feel like they would learn the most real to share the most so it's sort of like minion conferences where sessions are proposed to beginning of each day and then they're scheduled.
[2022-05-02T15:14:13.086Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'm for the day I'm the wall.
[2022-05-02T15:14:22.416Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: The paper which is great and then are you can see what was going on and you could bounce around to whatever session made sense.
[2022-05-02T15:14:28.349Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Azimuth are like so many sessions going on at once there is a.
[2022-05-02T15:14:43.571Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Something like eight sessions at a time every day so like several times a day so it was impossible to go to all of them and I'm still like reading on reading through notes and catching up on all of the things that I missed.
[2022-05-02T15:14:46.558Z]	<Taylor>	Meant to mention for any EU friends. LEF will be attending/presenting at WHEC. https://www.unesco.org/en/education/higher-education/2022-world-conference
[2022-05-02T15:14:55.245Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'm Dimitri I was going to see if you wanted to sort of do some reflecting on know your experience and a sessions that you attended.
[2022-05-02T15:15:05.084Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:15:12.201Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Sure so yeah so plus want everything that you said it's okay I'll mention a couple things that they were takeaways for me that really struck me one is.
[2022-05-02T15:15:44.806Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Interest from so continued interest from the wider than the community so not just the central identifiers verify credentials but also the like open ID Foundation community so Microsoft and Ping Identity and yes.com and talk time and a bunch of other similar right so a lot of sessions where about opening day for verifiable presentation.
[2022-05-02T15:15:45.334Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Sigh up which is.
[2022-05-02T15:15:50.964Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: It should open it to connect and for the first time.
[2022-05-02T15:16:11.778Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Since the conversation started we also now have interest from the browser makers from all of the Chrome Dev team to add support for decentralized identity wallet mediation into the browser itself now.
[2022-05-02T15:16:44.925Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: It's actually rolling that out will take things to the browser will take will take changes to the operating system but I think it's interesting to highlight that the conversation is widening its surface right like more and more Industries and companies are finding out about our corner of the world and that comes with its usual set of opportunities and threats but don't.
[2022-05-02T15:16:45.984Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: I'll just say for the moment that bro.
[2022-05-02T15:17:09.193Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Adding wallet mediation support which makes our job of Building Systems working with verify credentials much easier so that part is good I really enjoyed the verifiable credentials in education panel that you and I hosted that was.
[2022-05-02T15:17:20.346Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Doesn't ask a lot of people as good questions about our community and hopefully we'll we'll see them on on these calls.
[2022-05-02T15:17:44.346Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We had a that was it that was a great session Dimitri we had a we had a full room and we had a lot of great questions about backwards compatibility but also some like challenging discussions right about adoption and use cases.
[2022-05-02T15:17:46.294Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Yeah yeah exactly exactly.
[2022-05-02T15:17:54.281Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: No please please.
[2022-05-02T15:18:10.252Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	GAIN: https://gainforum.org/
[2022-05-02T15:18:11.155Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Now one of the things we touched upon in there to sorry to interrupt or is we've been sort of like looking into like asking questions about governance and issue Registries and someone provided an example of gain took down that links I thought that I put that in here anybody can shouldn't checking that out.
[2022-05-02T15:18:36.517Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2022-05-02T15:18:41.842Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:18:45.663Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I actually had called that session to do an update and what was going on in the space to let folks know but also I really am trying to figure out what we could do about an issue Registries and governance in the space so as try to like gather information in there but we actually spent a lot of time talking about use cases which which is interesting because I think that reflects more of what happens outside this community than what we do in here even though we've been working on that use cases doctor.
[2022-05-02T15:18:45.975Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  ever we are also embroiled in our use cases that.
[2022-05-02T15:18:57.046Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Newer new folks come to our space I think they question what is going on and so that was a interesting and eye-opening discussion for me for sure.
[2022-05-02T15:19:08.631Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:19:10.170Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:19:18.636Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:19:24.229Z]	<IdentityWoman>	Disco.xyz!!
[2022-05-02T15:19:28.277Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Absolutely and I'll add one last thing I noticed Marty is on the call so love to hear from from him as well I'm sorry not on the call on the Queue is that there's there's also a lot more energy from the web for free community so we saw a couple of companies and a couple of demos and presentations focusing on basically Bridging the blockchain sign in with etherium type of thing.
[2022-05-02T15:19:29.095Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: With dissent translated.
[2022-05-02T15:19:40.918Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yeah he go to hear him clearly okay.
[2022-05-02T15:19:50.206Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Our society Community yeah like disco oh and coleus here as well so that'll be great to hear Clea as usually put on a fantastic you and your colleagues put on a fantastic conference Marty go ahead.
[2022-05-02T15:19:52.970Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:20:00.057Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	It was a great conference!
[2022-05-02T15:20:07.292Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marty_Reed
[2022-05-02T15:20:10.909Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:20:20.533Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Yeah so just a couple of quick takeaways from the sessions one you know on that point of registration registries you know it's obvious that a lot of a lot of folks have really you know I think last year's progress progress versus this year's progress is a 5x its people are moving faster and really building some real things.
[2022-05-02T15:20:20.989Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: One of the.
[2022-05-02T15:20:52.258Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Real things being built glice I felt like had a very had a big presence there and they've really done some some really good work around building out this legal identity legal entity identity framework so highly recommend folks take a look at what glyph' is doing I think they're piloting and some production level legal entity.
[2022-05-02T15:20:52.525Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed:  identity work.
[2022-05-02T15:20:55.510Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	s/coleus here/Kaliya is here/
[2022-05-02T15:20:56.045Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.gleif.org/en
[2022-05-02T15:20:57.783Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: There and then and then also just.
[2022-05-02T15:21:07.193Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	s/Clea/Kaliya/
[2022-05-02T15:21:28.660Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: What we done here in b.c. at you I feel like it's still very very forward thinking and what the actual use cases are actual deliverable of you know how do we transmit interoperable education records between systems and I heard a lot of folks talk about interoperability and actually being able to to do it.
[2022-05-02T15:21:32.625Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:21:54.900Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	s/our society Community/our SSI community/
[2022-05-02T15:21:59.621Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: So the one of the very interesting things was Charles laner I don't think he's here but I said in one of my opening statements you know show me your verifiable credential and I'll show you mine and he had printed cards with I believe it was 18 different formats of verifiable credentials with QR codes and definitions so it's really cool to see.
[2022-05-02T15:22:09.631Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	s/b.c. at you/VC-EDU
[2022-05-02T15:22:17.065Z]	<Transcriber>	Marty_Reed: Real things and working on that real interoperability so those are just a couple of Reflections and great job Kerry and Dimitri your sessions were awesome and happy to contribute to those.
[2022-05-02T15:22:22.736Z]	<IdentityWoman>	I also learned about new standards org "more punkrock than DIF" the Chain Agnostic Standards Alliance
[2022-05-02T15:22:29.551Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	s/web for free community/Web3 community/
[2022-05-02T15:22:36.264Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you Marty you know I also speaking of Charles those of you may not know him but I was so happy to meet him because he has been supporting the infrastructure and really just taking good care of us him along with Manu I think is also here and it was so great to meet him I was just such a pleasure really.
[2022-05-02T15:22:45.700Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:22:46.396Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Hooray for cel!
[2022-05-02T15:22:47.807Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Clear Diva do you want to say a few words like what struck you about the conference.
[2022-05-02T15:23:10.623Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CASA
[2022-05-02T15:23:11.550Z]	<Taylor>	Turns out humans still like meeting humans :)
[2022-05-02T15:23:13.290Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Sir sorry sure it was really intense like people not seeing each other for two years out of this whole kind of intensity to things we way over subscribe sessions relative to rooms on Wednesday.
[2022-05-02T15:23:15.211Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	s/Clear Diva/Kaliya/
[2022-05-02T15:23:30.788Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: We're definitely looking at renting more space in the museum which the maybe we can but we didn't we had over we close registration at about 250 a week before and we.
[2022-05-02T15:23:37.981Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: We ended up at.
[2022-05-02T15:23:54.093Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: 280 anyways because some people had to be let in and we had 60 people 60-plus people on a waiting list and they all put themselves on the waiting list in that last week so.
[2022-05-02T15:24:06.168Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Was kind of sucky to turn people away but just didn't have the space and we didn't know we need the space because nobody signed up ahead of time right so.
[2022-05-02T15:24:17.148Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: I think it was really great to see like bridge-e web three companies come like the Disco folks were great Spruce ad was great.
[2022-05-02T15:24:44.057Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Kepler from Spruce: https://www.spruceid.com/kepler
[2022-05-02T15:24:46.407Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: There was some you know people who were just finding our communities and women who are like from Wyoming super into nft he's like I'm going to end up T me or like you know of course they ran a session I don't know how it goes I should go look up the notes but you know I think there are some new you know new interesting activity and real progress on.
[2022-05-02T15:24:55.528Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: No other activity and also communicating like just people kind of connecting and.
[2022-05-02T15:25:16.695Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Like bridging some gaps like building understanding I think the MD MBA was there there was three a people I was it was incredible to have them in the rooms and listening to all of what we're doing I think there's genuine.
[2022-05-02T15:25:34.607Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Sincere interest on the part of folks who are working on the Amba standards not the a standard is that mdl standards within ISO to really bridge bridge between their work and our work.
[2022-05-02T15:25:42.322Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: I know Andrew Hughes ran a session called what's your wish list for the next generation of mdl stuff.
[2022-05-02T15:25:53.288Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: I is the chair one of the chairs of the diff interop working group are going to invite him to come in.
[2022-05-02T15:26:08.684Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Lead the kind of the same session but outside of Aya W because obviously only people who made it to his session at that particular time and iiw contributed to that list so that feels like a really.
[2022-05-02T15:26:33.679Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Earlier process and you know I also watched like people who have done the best inside their countries to try and get engaged with the mdl work and explain that how they were unable to successfully engage and the mdl folks being like okay we're going to figure out how to get you in the working group like so that was heartening like they weren't just like.
[2022-05-02T15:26:41.873Z]	<Taylor>	s/end up T/nft
[2022-05-02T15:26:43.367Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: They were really sincerely interested in hearing from us and welcoming participation.
[2022-05-02T15:26:55.639Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: I'm happy too I don't I ran a session on conspiracy theories I'm really interested in how we as.
[2022-05-02T15:27:05.148Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Not just the folks who show up at iaw but in a much broader swath of like folks who work on identity can potentially engage in.
[2022-05-02T15:27:19.137Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Collaborative work to reduce the conspiracy theory Noise by putting out good information they think it's going to hurt all of us really badly if we don't.
[2022-05-02T15:27:26.331Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Distinguish the different types of digital identity work differently they're not one thing.
[2022-05-02T15:27:50.544Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	s/Aya W/IIW
[2022-05-02T15:27:51.707Z]	<Taylor>	s/iaw/iiw
[2022-05-02T15:28:02.938Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I really like I like that session is it reinforced really how early it is in the space but also the responsibility that we have to create safe technology that's good for humans but also provide some language and and support to increase that understanding and I kind of felt like when you and I did the sorry I did any 101 the same kind of like feeling came out also with that Chris Kelly from diff for me there is this overlapping like hey we have language.
[2022-05-02T15:28:03.275Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  it's to think about here and context.
[2022-05-02T15:28:12.223Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And support that we really need to start considering if we want to see more adoption and better understanding right.
[2022-05-02T15:28:20.973Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:28:33.490Z]	<Frank_C_Cicio_Jr>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:28:45.437Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Thank you so much kaliya if see nobody else on the kill when I add a couple more couple more thoughts that really struck me also speaking of web 30 bridging Technologies can help but mention our own demo so I was there with my colleague from hyper construct and the X are foundation so we're doing a lot of work in the.
[2022-05-02T15:28:45.692Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z:  machine learning augmented reality.
[2022-05-02T15:29:06.631Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Out these base combining it with their fiber potentials you Central identifiers wallets so we demoed basically a credential Handler API chappie for short web wallet inside a virtual reality.
[2022-05-02T15:29:13.699Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: It's also very much a.
[2022-05-02T15:29:44.756Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Bridging two and three both in the end of T and Valentin sense but also in the virtual in the metaverse sense as the jargon goes these days so that was interesting but what I wanted to mention was a couple more things one was it was really great to see that there's a lot of increasing interest in json-ld and linked data serialization of Republican engines from a wider community so now not just the user.
[2022-05-02T15:29:45.104Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z:  no Suspects.
[2022-05-02T15:29:59.238Z]	<IdentityWoman>	Sam Curan did a session "How can we make JSON-LD suck less" :)
[2022-05-02T15:30:09.561Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: But also a lot of the Kuiper Ledger Indy folks so like Sam Quran for example hosted a session that's like all right what can we do to make this an oldie credentials and less painful to work with as developers and there's there's a it filled the room there's like 20 plus people there from.
[2022-05-02T15:30:18.859Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Somebody's not not typically working with linked data and all the suggestions were really good in ones that.
[2022-05-02T15:30:40.987Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: I've often thought about we basically boils down to hey let's lock down contexts cryptographically let's let's add digest and hash links and but of course the overwhelming one was hey we need more tooling specifically for developers creating json-ld contacts for the first time.
[2022-05-02T15:30:41.226Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z:  and I say.
[2022-05-02T15:30:42.607Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	s/Quran/Curren
[2022-05-02T15:30:51.391Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Master kariya know you've been working on the open badges version 3 contacts and I've been working on a couple and that's certainly.
[2022-05-02T15:30:53.529Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:30:56.296Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Or Tooling in that area would certainly be a welcome sight of course.
[2022-05-02T15:31:03.305Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Some similarly there was there's some interesting emerging.
[2022-05-02T15:31:19.945Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: For bridging standards coming out in the area of authorization so we've got Spruce ID team and a couple of.
[2022-05-02T15:31:21.542Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	s/Kuiper/Hyper
[2022-05-02T15:31:40.499Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Well companies in the secure data storage working group in the specifically the task force that was previously identity hubs and is now been renamed to decentralize web notes so that's Daniel Buckner his team and a couple of Allied companies.
[2022-05-02T15:31:50.897Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Form of authorization capabilities called you cans and there is.
[2022-05-02T15:32:06.804Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Some of them were proposing a standard that basically Bridges Z capital D authorization capabilities for length data and you cans into sort of translated before Nicole and I always like to see Bridge Technologies like that.
[2022-05-02T15:32:12.413Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Do we have any questions from.
[2022-05-02T15:32:18.348Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:32:34.068Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://diddirectory.com/
[2022-05-02T15:32:41.180Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: A while later I Gathering up some questions I have a couple of references that I gathered and I can share one came out of a created did in five minutes which is that the did directory and put that on the chart so this is like a very easy way to look up dudes in the registry.
[2022-05-02T15:32:48.916Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: A friendly easy to read so I may appreciate keeping that and you bookmark list.
[2022-05-02T15:32:53.829Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And then the other one is is go did it.
[2022-05-02T15:33:01.381Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://godiddy.com/
[2022-05-02T15:33:24.820Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: So Diddy is something created to this here in the chat for you so you can look at it when I talk about it it's a it's a hosted platform that where you can create resolve update and activate it and includes Universal resolver Universal register and a wallet service so you can manage dids and keys as well as I as a versioning service so this is something worth checking out even if.
[2022-05-02T15:33:25.133Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  if you don't use this.
[2022-05-02T15:33:41.027Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Read the docs to learn more about how did work because there's a lot of information in the documentation I haven't tried using this yet but I'm excited to mess around with it a little bit to see if it can be useful.
[2022-05-02T15:33:41.800Z]	<Gerard>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:33:49.496Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:34:02.910Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Thanks Gary I just noticed Kimberly is here and I was wondering could I put you on the spot I'm really curious and we were one of the co-chairs of the ccg like what your thoughts were attending iwn and what they do is sort of.
[2022-05-02T15:34:22.426Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Yeah you know I'm happy to be on the spot and I were going to do this tomorrow again and sort of the bigger wider group and so I've been it's been interesting to sort of hear this discussion and think about sort of what we might what I might want to bring up tomorrow for me.
[2022-05-02T15:34:53.107Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: It was a lot of what has been said but but the community was really powerful for me just the sense of this common dream around identity and all of our I don't think I really understood before I got there how vast a concept that is from from the social and philosophical underpinning.
[2022-05-02T15:34:53.394Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  going on.
[2022-05-02T15:35:04.974Z]	<Srijan>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:35:24.760Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Paintings of identity I went to colonias session on her book around the domains of identity and that that kind of thinking which I find really powerful all the way to you know very very technical and an exciting Innovation that's happening around how we can we can bring this these things to life and so that was really impactful.
[2022-05-02T15:35:25.012Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  for me.
[2022-05-02T15:35:47.510Z]	<yashwardhan>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:35:55.746Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: No one of the truthfully one of the most impactful things that I went to was on Wednesday morning we had a time to just gather as women in this space and you know I mean in all honesty I mean I don't know what the numbers were I'd be interested to know what the percentage of women at the conference was but it's I think it's growing it seems like they're the circle that we had on Wednesday morning was pretty large.
[2022-05-02T15:35:56.106Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  but still.
[2022-05-02T15:36:22.142Z]	<Taylor>	Thx @kerri - lol godiddy 😂
[2022-05-02T15:36:26.638Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Minority in in the room and and listening to again sort of I guess the theme for me is this is is the varied and multifaceted ways that people are are are involved in identity that came out very clearly for me in in those in that in that Circle and just the the ways that people are doing our.
[2022-05-02T15:36:58.884Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Extraordinary and I think one of the things the other things that sort of came out for me was you know I've been living in this verifiable credentials and self Sovereign identity world and and and I am a believer but I hadn't really been given the opportunity to sort of hear some of the other side and what some of the folks that aren't sure about this kind of technology and bringing it into.
[2022-05-02T15:36:59.233Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  to their world like that like that was.
[2022-05-02T15:37:24.202Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: The again I think it speaks so positively to the community there that those opinions and ideas can be really reflected in a in a very collegial way and so that was that was sort of my other big big takeaway so I'm hoping Kalia and I see us on the Q now I'm hoping she's going to chime in with some thoughts about that too.
[2022-05-02T15:37:28.852Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thanks Kimberly Kimberly I'm clear before.
[2022-05-02T15:37:56.483Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Yeah that thanks for mentioning like like traditionally at IW in personally posted what we just called women's breakfast on Wednesday morning at 8:00 a.m. like an hour before the conference starts when we everybody's free to come and have breakfast and you know I chatted with Heidi about that afterwards and it used to be.
[2022-05-02T15:37:56.806Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman:  we only had like.
[2022-05-02T15:38:29.036Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: One of the little tables inside the like in the main space those kind of rounds that fit like 8 to 10 people and then we got big enough we had to go into space f which is like a bigger conference room with a table and then of course because of covid and we're eating we like moved it onto the balcony outside and it was really packed and it was the most number of women ever I think.
[2022-05-02T15:38:29.496Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman:  think big.
[2022-05-02T15:39:01.368Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: The a reason it was larger it was the most women ever I believe of and IW in a reason it was larger with Spruce ID specifically hosted a diversity and inclusion scholarship for the first time we gave people money to get to I a w so we flew Milwaukee who's been a part of the community from Togo and we also put out the call.
[2022-05-02T15:39:01.702Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman:  all to the women and identity.
[2022-05-02T15:39:29.273Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Mailing list and people basically applied to get either a free tour free ticket and Sonny to get there and I think we had six six or seven women come on that scholarship so that was a really big success in terms of expanding who could be there I think we're going to try and invite more corporate sponsorship of.
[2022-05-02T15:39:40.080Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Jen money so that we can do even more because we had to turn a few people away we just didn't have enough money for that but.
[2022-05-02T15:39:55.778Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:40:10.888Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: That's great and thanks for mentioning my book I'll put a link to the core domains of identity that are in a PDF like a four page PDF that you can read and then if you want you can buy the book I wrote it as my Master's thesis and that identity management and security program at UT Austin but I think it's I think it's really I wrote it because there wasn't.
[2022-05-02T15:40:14.549Z]	<Keith_Kowal>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:40:28.252Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:40:32.734Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: How different different domains are and that if we just keep pulling all of identity into one big blob will never solve it so I'll stop there I see there's someone else in the queue.
[2022-05-02T15:40:37.292Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: That's great thank you.
[2022-05-02T15:40:43.727Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Thank you so much and similarly Sharon would you want to say a few words like what your takeaways were.
[2022-05-02T15:41:16.441Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: I'm sure I'll say something just more on a personal note I guess I feel like it was my first IW and I felt like a kid who like studied like French for like four years in high school and four years in college and finally went to France for the first time and like while like I recognized all of the vocabulary words being used it was a little overwhelming to hear them being used like sequential e and.
[2022-05-02T15:41:16.960Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu:  sentences and also like.
[2022-05-02T15:41:22.341Z]	<IdentityWoman>	<3
[2022-05-02T15:41:43.037Z]	<Taylor>	🇫🇷
[2022-05-02T15:41:43.447Z]	<Transcriber>	Sharon_Leu: To string together ideas so I think that it was definitely like dive into the deep end learning for me but I think that I really appreciated how patient everyone was like explaining things to me when I asked a lot of questions so I would highly recommend it if no one if anyone hasn't gone to just go for it.
[2022-05-02T15:42:02.686Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: It was great I kind of felt that way too even though I probably have dug into it a little bit more I still there's just so much more that I was exposed to in person and I just hadn't been ever.
[2022-05-02T15:42:11.094Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: My husband may be calling you to since you were there that's where we met you tell us a little bit about your experience.
[2022-05-02T15:42:40.393Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Sure yeah and it was also my first iiw to go on-site and it was a fabulous experience I had already done the remote once a couple of times and what post interesting for me was just the explosion of how to get verifiable credentials out there and production right there are so many approaches.
[2022-05-02T15:42:40.641Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com:  for example I had.
[2022-05-02T15:43:11.403Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Action we're in you know it's not just did Cam right open ID connect folks were there all over and people were trying to get this technology put out in various different ways because of the key issues or adoption so I it was interesting to see new approaches that are really I mean these guys had taken I attended a session I forget the exact one.
[2022-05-02T15:43:43.832Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Straight back here and it was interesting to see that they had taken a cup I and then modified it so that it can actually do open ID connect and you know so on and so forth so it was really eye-opening for me to see the various approaches and just like I think Dmitri mentioned it was high was in another session where the Google guys were there and they were extremely.
[2022-05-02T15:43:44.147Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com:  Lee actually.
[2022-05-02T15:44:14.893Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Snow was a person who headed this and he had talked about the NASCAR problem with wallets you know if you have 18 wallets how do we decide and make it easy for people to actually select it and the Google person who is there was very keen on understanding the issue and trying to see if there is a way in which they can solve it from a phone perspective and so on so so it was really.
[2022-05-02T15:44:15.224Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com:  really excellent.
[2022-05-02T15:44:46.789Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: To see some of these you know interactions and the community coming together to really solve these problems so that was the most amazing thing for me and of course one of the best sessions that I attended which is what I mentioned initially was AC/DC for modules I think it is applicable to this audience and it would be great to get you no drama.
[2022-05-02T15:44:47.408Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com:  want to come here at all and I.
[2022-05-02T15:44:55.709Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:45:07.953Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Amazing sessions that I attended and actually picked up quite a few things just in that one hour so somebody stood up and said that the conference was worth that 10,000 dollar education kind of value and I would endorse that.
[2022-05-02T15:45:20.352Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I have saved a really put you on the spot here but would you mind just sort of doing a brief overview of that I'm just just a few sentences to tell us what it was about.
[2022-05-02T15:45:48.902Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Yeah so I think it all really I think it would be better if you know I don't want to kind of give up because it was just my first introduction I would rather if I had Drummond's PowerPoint carry I would be more comfortable so that I don't mess something up it was my first exposure so.
[2022-05-02T15:46:04.932Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Said and it takes us a while to get drama died be happy to walk through his seven points so but I would need to lean on his very nice PowerPoint so yeah sorry.
[2022-05-02T15:46:05.698Z]	<IdentityWoman>	I can share the new Hub we have for sharing at the conference.
[2022-05-02T15:46:10.134Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: No no that's okay we'll make that happen.
[2022-05-02T15:46:10.318Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:46:19.960Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey Leah you have the floor.
[2022-05-02T15:46:38.082Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	s/Hey Leah /Hey Kaliya
[2022-05-02T15:46:48.644Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Sir I am I thought I could share the new we have an inner because we were online for two years for for Aya W as we used keycode shot as the online Forum like the way we navigated open space we continued using Kiko this time I'm not for hosting the sessions you can see all the sponsors here these are 180.
[2022-05-02T15:46:48.920Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman:  three participants that we.
[2022-05-02T15:46:54.921Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: But when you go in.
[2022-05-02T15:47:26.760Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: They actually have each of the agendas is there for each of the days and you can go there and we put all the notes forms in here so it's a new way to do notes we didn't invite people to email them to us although if you really wanted to could but you can through this go and access the Google Doc notes for particular session.
[2022-05-02T15:47:27.094Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman:  Ian so.
[2022-05-02T15:47:33.526Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: We have the capacity to real-time multi-person notes creation.
[2022-05-02T15:47:42.602Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2022-05-02T15:48:04.577Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: So that's that's a key and also folks who went to the conference can see that the sessions and more people can contribute and all the nodes will get moved into the public Wiki which is sort of where the notes live permanently but this was a great something I thought was new and different that was good about you know having gone online and come back in person.
[2022-05-02T15:48:07.723Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: How do I stop sharing.
[2022-05-02T15:48:16.075Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yeah that worked out really well clear do you have the link to the public archive from the previous sessions candy.
[2022-05-02T15:48:21.050Z]	<IdentityWoman>	https://iiw.idcommons.net/Main_Page
[2022-05-02T15:48:25.609Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:48:32.270Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Yeah I am w.id comments not now I'll put the chat in the top so that's where you can go and see all of the notes of every previous IW back to iw7.
[2022-05-02T15:48:36.169Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: That's awesome thank you.
[2022-05-02T15:48:47.830Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I know how much hard work goes into into hosting this we really do appreciate it is a great event hopefully you get to make it to the 12 November 2.
[2022-05-02T15:49:12.381Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: I'll see to and I think this is really important as we are considering what special topics we should hose like mini half day like online virtual iws big iiw still always in person but these are more like you know if we would be totally we'd be totally down if this community wanted to have like a.
[2022-05-02T15:49:12.600Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman:  you know.
[2022-05-02T15:49:17.970Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: And education special topic half day.
[2022-05-02T15:49:30.640Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: You know between now and the virtual main iaw are not the purpose of them you know what I mean the in-person IW let me know.
[2022-05-02T15:49:34.177Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yeah that'd be great let's see if we can figure that out extinct.
[2022-05-02T15:49:46.118Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: I'm Kimberly that's a topic to put forward tomorrow at the main ccg maybe at the end which is that we are welcoming ideas for.
[2022-05-02T15:49:46.315Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman:  you know.
[2022-05-02T15:50:06.734Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q+
[2022-05-02T15:50:08.355Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Minimally to we did one last year on the business of SSI and I forget what the finalized but you know up to four or five even if there was demand and sort of clear sub topic areas that would have a critical mass of like you know 50 people.
[2022-05-02T15:50:13.328Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Kimberly you have the floor.
[2022-05-02T15:50:18.377Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Kimberly_Wilson_Linson
[2022-05-02T15:50:22.239Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: I was just going to ask Aaliyah what was the best way to like I would definitely bring that up tomorrow so what is the best way for people to.
[2022-05-02T15:50:25.576Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: You're going to submit those ideas like.
[2022-05-02T15:50:26.249Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2022-05-02T15:50:43.501Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Let's go question I mean I think if people named them on the call we can like I'm planning to be there and we can come and I'll be happy to put my email in or whatever works for folks to reach out yeah.
[2022-05-02T15:50:48.662Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: And and are you are you for sure that that November will be in person again.
[2022-05-02T15:50:54.674Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: I wasn't sure if that decision had been made holy.
[2022-05-02T15:51:03.749Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: Nope nothing's for sure and covid I don't I'm I mean we're going to have a kind of team meeting probably in early June and sort of assess I mean my.
[2022-05-02T15:51:11.893Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: We worked really hard to find.
[2022-05-02T15:51:21.718Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: They liked the museum is booked booked and we worked hard to find days we have to make a firm decision two months out.
[2022-05-02T15:51:27.081Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: It is the week I think it's the week before American Thanksgiving.
[2022-05-02T15:51:37.122Z]	<Transcriber>	IdentityWoman: I don't know really I mean Our intention is to be in person we've booked the museum.
[2022-05-02T15:51:44.315Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Cool thank you.
[2022-05-02T15:51:52.374Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Does anybody have any any questions or comments about IW and.
[2022-05-02T15:51:55.104Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	s/I am w.id comments not now/iiw.idcommons.net
[2022-05-02T15:52:36.502Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: No I'm for the next couple of weeks we are working on agenda items and we will announce them soon they will probably be related to wallets could leave the next two weeks and then we just need to sort of a check in with folks and make sure they're ready so we will send out an agenda this Friday if you have anything you would like to present you like to be in the agenda for a call don't hesitate to reach out.
[2022-05-02T15:53:07.058Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: And also know that we are working on a sewer working on these cases document and also working towards updating the recommendations documents so that we can sort of get in time with the open Badges and C LR V 2 releases so lots of good stuff coming up lots of topics to cover in the next few months savitri and Simoni do you have anything else add before we sign off.
[2022-05-02T15:53:25.979Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: No except that I hope that one of those topics who will be a their fiber credentials display for wallets proposal about it though.
[2022-05-02T15:53:28.143Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	Me three!
[2022-05-02T15:53:28.591Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: YouTube let's do that.
[2022-05-02T15:53:34.361Z]	<Taylor>	Thanks all… this was my iiw fomo antidote.
[2022-05-02T15:53:36.056Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey everybody well that's end a little bit early today then hope you all have a great week thanks for joining us.
[2022-05-02T15:53:37.270Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	Thanks!
[2022-05-02T15:53:40.478Z]	<IdentityWoman>	Thank you!
[2022-05-02T15:53:44.770Z]	<Frank_C_Cicio_Jr>	thanks

