Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-04-11-vcapi/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-04-11-vcapi/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC API Task Force Transcript for 2023-04-11

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2023Apr/0022.html
Topics:
  1. Relevant Community Updates
  2. What happens between issuance -- POST to response?
  3. Why do we believe it's a good idea to return an issued 
    credential
  4. Do the /exchanges/* endpoints need authz?
  5. What happens when you delete a revocable credential?
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Phil L (P1), Manu Sporny, Greg Bernstein, Alan Karp, John Kuo, 
  Dave Longley, Patrick St-Louis, John Henderson, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Joe Andrieu, Tom S, Paul 
  Dietrich GS1, Phil Long

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Manu Sporny:  Welcome everyone to the verifiable credentials API 
  work item call this is Tuesday April 11th 2023 our agenda is in 
  the chat channel.
Manu Sporny:  On the agenda today we have issue processing 
  largely so we'll do some Community updates and then move onto 
  issue processing first one is an old one why do we believe it's a 
  good idea to return an issued credential to an internal caller 
  the next item is do the exchange.
Manu Sporny:  I need authorization and then finally what happens 
  when you delete a revocable credential and we'll get through 
  those as we can any other updates or changes to the agenda 
  anything else we want to discuss today.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Patrick.
Patrick St-Louis:  I had a question for the issue credentials 
  issue and point I would like to discuss the question is in 
  between the time that you send the post request and you receive 
  the sign credential is it acceptable that there would be other 
  operations happening like an exchange between the issuer in the 
  holder so I'd like to discuss this.
Manu Sporny:  Interesting yeah that's a great great question we 
  will put it up first item on the agenda in people can pontificate 
  on that point and yeah we'll start the discussion so please 
  remind me Patrick right after we do community updates will pick 
  up that question any other item we want to discuss today anything 
  else we should cover.

Topic: Relevant Community Updates

Manu Sporny:  Okay if not let's get into Let's see we all know 
  each other here yes so let's go into relevant Community updates 
  I'll kick us off does well let me let me kick us off by going to 
  the actually it's the ccwg mailing list there.
<manu_sporny> The EdDSA Data Integrity Cryptosuite 
  https://w3c.github.io/vc-di-eddsa/FPWD/2023-04-18/
<manu_sporny> The ECDSA Data Integrity Cryptosuite 
  https://w3c.github.io/vc-di-ecdsa/FPWD/2023-04-18/
Manu Sporny:  Just a quick announcement that we've got first 
  public working drafts going out for the EDSA crypto sweet and the 
  ecdsa crypto sweet put those links in the chat Channel this is a 
  part of the w3c process it's an F PW D basically is just a signal 
  that you know the group doesn't agree on anything in the 
  specification but we do intend to take this thing.
Manu Sporny:   NG all the way through the global standards track.
Manu Sporny:  These documents were approved nine months ago to 
  transition out of ccg but the ccwg didn't accept them until just 
  towards the beginning of this year and a couple weeks back and 
  the first step official step on their Journey well I guess the 
  second official step on their journey is being published as an F 
  PW D so we're targeting the 18th the vote on that will happen 
  tomorrow.
Manu Sporny:  No it'll happen tomorrow and we'll go from there 
  BBS doesn't have enough PWD yet it needs a little bit more work 
  before that happens in the status list twenty twenty one thing 
  doesn't have a FWD yet that's that's Point okay that's it as far 
  as up do I guess the other other important thing to mention is 
  the.
Manu Sporny:  This discussion has kicked off we use multi formats 
  for dids and signatures and all kinds of other things that go 
  that are passed over the VC API and so that discussion just 
  respond to the multi formats folks questions has been kicked off 
  this week go ahead Patrick.
Patrick St-Louis:  I just wanted to mention that I was saying as 
  demonstration I wanted to prepare for I'm on Crimson is should I 
  would like to propose to have it next week.
Manu Sporny:  Perfect awesome we will definitely put that first 
  week first thing on next week's agenda and thank you for working 
  on that and putting it together Patrick.
<phil_l_(p1)> There will be papers presented Thursday from RWOT11 
  noon EDT:
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead John.
John Henderson:  Oh yeah so following up from the open knowledge 
  Foundation topic from last week so the slot to actually presented 
  the open wall Foundation is is arranged so that would be.
John Henderson: 
  https://github.com/openwallet-foundation/architecture-sig/blob/main/meeting-details.md
John Henderson:  We could X Monday at 11 a.m. Pacific use the 
  media details in the chat if anyone wants to join it and the 
  meeting will be recorded I'll be presenting roughly what I 
  presented last week.
Manu Sporny:  Excellent thank you for scheduling that let me 
  bring that up here thank you for scheduling that looks like to 
  zoom meeting.
Manu Sporny:  Yep 11 a.m. Pacific so hopefully everyone here can 
  make that call.
Manu Sporny:  I believe I should be able to make that call so 
  yeah as ideally all of us show up on that call I'll send that out 
  to the ccg actually John would you mind sending that out to the 
  ccg mailing list you might get a couple more people joining if 
  you announce it to the list.
John Henderson:  Sure just saying that the presentation will be 
  happening.
John Henderson:  Great idea thanks that will do.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah yeah there's a presentation on the verifiable 
  credential API happening to the open Wallet foundation and then 
  give them the meeting details and say everyone's invited to join 
  yeah okay awesome thank you and thank you for continuing to push 
  that forward any other updates Community relates.
Manu Sporny:  Okay if not let's go into Patrick yeah go ahead.
Phil_L_(P1): Man you just just I just put it in chat a little bit 
  ago but there is a presentation on Thursday at noon eastern time 
  of papers from the are wot 11 meeting that are going to be 
  presented and the zoom link is there.
Manu Sporny:  Excellent thank you I see it yep.
Manu Sporny:  Okay any other community updates.
Manu Sporny:  Alright if not let's jump into Patrick's topic 
  Patrick how would you handle this.

Topic: What happens between issuance -- POST to response?

Patrick St-Louis:  So if I was to give it a title is it 
  acceptable that in between the post request and the response on 
  their credentials issuer endpoint there's other steps happening 
  than just the signature of the verifiable credential by other 
  steps I would specific scenario I have in mind is a will showcase 
  it next week.
Patrick St-Louis:  Exchange between the issuer and the holder to 
  provide so that the older can provide additional information for 
  the signature of the credential using a different cryptographic 
  sweet and in this case it's it's a concept called The Link Secret 
  so the holder provides a link secret that is embedded in the 
  signature.
Patrick St-Louis:  That allows the holder to do selective 
  disclosure and so on.
Manu Sporny:  Great got it Dave you're in the queue.
Dave Longley:  Yes so in general I would say that you can as long 
  as you're implementing to the API you can do just about whatever 
  you would want in the background or you know you can hide 
  whatever implementation details you would want to their however 
  for that particular end point I would recommend not doing that 
  and what you just described to me sounds like a really good use 
  case just for using the exchanges API it seems like what's going 
  on.
Dave Longley:   On is you have a holder whose use.
Dave Longley:  Later their client and if they're interfacing if 
  that client is interfacing with an exchange and point that 
  exchange endpoint could ask further whatever it needs and that 
  could be provided to The Exchange endpoint which then would make 
  a call to the issue endpoint with you know it would end when it 
  makes a call that issue and pointed would have everything that it 
  needs because it would have collected it from holder so the kinds 
  of exchange the I mean they are exchanges the kinds of exchange 
  you're talking about seems.
Dave Longley:   Like it.
Dave Longley:  Into the exchange flow not that it should be 
  inserted into the issue service that's what it seems like to me.
Patrick St-Louis:  Yeah I think that makes a lot of sense because 
  I actually what's happening is that when you have the payload for 
  the credentials issue you know it's like a credential json-ld at 
  the moment it's a json-ld credential and I don't see a way to add 
  that extra information besides having a new field and the options 
  field that would have that information because what needs to 
  happen here in my.
Patrick St-Louis:   Sort of.
Patrick St-Louis:  Are you do is from that credential there's a 
  credential offer that gets generated presented to the holder to 
  hold their generates a credential request that forwards it to the 
  issuer and then the issuer can sign the credential and issue it 
  so that that is the the scenario.
Patrick St-Louis:  And I do see that this sort of offer request 
  does fit in the exchange service that's from what I understand 
  that's what it's for just I have a hard time how even after this 
  result this can be sort of made visible in the currently defined 
  payload of the credentials issue and point that extra 
  information.
Dave Longley:  Yeah it seems like we need to find a place to slot 
  that in I mean using there are a number of people that want to 
  use links secret be able to issue links secret based credentials 
  and so we should make sure that the issue endpoint has a 
  mechanism by which you can send it if it has to be options right 
  now that's the way to go right now but maybe we we just need 
  another field for some additional information that the issuer 
  would need for.
Dave Longley:   Depending on the type of crime.
Patrick St-Louis:  Okay maybe we can further discuss this next 
  week I love like something to show it so we can be more tangible 
  than the discussions.
Dave Longley:  Yeah sounds good.
Manu Sporny:  Excellent any other points I mean I agree with what 
  what Dave said any other points comments.
Manu Sporny:  Exchanges versus the issue endpoint and how we may 
  convey x-ray information to the issue endpoint right now.

Topic: Why do we believe it's a good idea to return an issued credential

Manu Sporny:  Okay yeah and it would be good to see maybe Patrick 
  when we look at you demo next week we'll be able to you know 
  provide more input to that question all right next well first 
  second topic up today is why do we believe it's a good idea to 
  return an issued credential to an internal caller so this is a 
  very very.
Manu Sporny:   Well it's just an old.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/48
Manu Sporny:  From two years ago plus much as much discussion has 
  happened since then and we have a better understanding about our 
  kind of model let me go ahead and pull this issue up.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so the the first you know it started with this 
  issued credentials have flows to Holders the API requires issuers 
  to also support flowing them to an internal caller for some 
  reason you know not aware of an architectural reason areas are 
  c36 excited but there's no concept of an internal destination and 
  so the conversation goes back and forth the bit until Daniel 
  says.
Manu Sporny:  You know this set of issue apis is motivated by DHS 
  asking for something common that it can ask all issuing systems 
  to support its intent is to impose interoperability constraints 
  on the whole industry this endpoint is built for internal callers 
  therefore the credential is for an internal call or so and then 
  you know he goes on to say I don't believe well let's see.
Manu Sporny:  This was kind of like you know I don't want DHS to 
  tell me it doesn't like everything software because it doesn't 
  support you know this thing.
Manu Sporny:  And the concern would go away if we make you know 
  credentials something optional meeting don't have internal apis I 
  think.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Joe.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah I think I think this is confusion about this 
  service versus the coordinator I think we are specifically 
  addressing his concerns by refactoring the components so I think 
  our our languaging of how we are defining the API makes this to 
  my sense a non-issue although Daniel may still have issues.
Joe Andrieu:  My kids his his presumption is the.
Joe Andrieu:  The Entity who is the issuer is only able to give 
  it to a holder.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah now that we've split it between it's the 
  coordinator that hands it to the holder and this API that we're 
  talking about is specifically on an internal service and so the 
  world Daniel wants still exists in this back-end issue or service 
  is optional like you don't have to have an issue or service you 
  know if you want interrupt you can define an issue or service 
  which you don't have to have it.
Joe Andrieu:  That's right if you want DHHS to buy your software 
  it would be good to have this interface.
Manu Sporny:  Let's see getting close Okay so so we did address 
  this last year ago literally in Market pending close and Tobias.
Manu Sporny:  Asks you know is the VC API internal style API.
Manu Sporny:  The endpoint definition that the wallet interacts 
  with is out of scope with exchanges it no longer is.
Joe Andrieu:  Right I think it's this languaging around internal 
  style API.
Joe Andrieu:  We language differently to avoid the confusion that 
  causes question.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so let's see the group discussed this on the 
  donkey 2304 1150 API telecon.
Manu Sporny:  That we have changed we have a lot of discussion 
  around the difference between and issuer control what do we 
  coordinator coordinator and issue or service.
Manu Sporny:  Away from the language related to internal versus 
  external.
Manu Sporny:  You have also ensured that implementation of any of 
  these mechanisms is optional and have provided one way in which 
  interoperability can be achieved.
Manu Sporny:  Implement the issuer service I or implement the.
Manu Sporny:  Yes you are coordinator API.
Manu Sporny:  So I guess you know you had yet please.
Joe Andrieu:  Let me could I speak minute the I was just 
  revisiting the last question from Tobias part of the challenges 
  is the language in uses slightly different words than we are like 
  we don't have a thing called a wallet that we know that the 
  holder stuff is wallet e but the boundaries between those two 
  have the same sort of boundaries as service and coordinator.
Joe Andrieu:   And accept are less well defined.
Joe Andrieu:  So I'm just wondering he because he brings in oauth 
  2 or 0 IDC and has a very specific question about how the wallets 
  includes this access token and I think we as a group haven't 
  really talked about how we support 0002 and oid see except for 
  the fact that maybe magically exchangers could help with that but 
  maybe if we were to think about how does the VC API integrated 
  oauth2 Roi d.c..
Joe Andrieu:   That may help the use case to bias is trying to 
  address.
Manu Sporny:  What was that last thing you said Joe I missed it.
Joe Andrieu:  That if if we were to discuss or document how the 
  VC API works with oauth2 or oid see that I think would help to 
  revise this question.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah it should be 0 ID for that's the good 
  correction.
Manu Sporny:  Well I mean I don't know keeps the name keeps 
  changing so it's 0 ID for as of last iiw yeah exactly go ahead 
  Dave.
Dave Longley:  Yeah sort of in response to Joe talking about 
  figuring out how to make exchanges work with oid for we have done 
  that with oid for BC already and so I do think it's just a matter 
  of documenting how that works and I'm not sure we might already 
  have another issue around exchanges and properly documenting more 
  on around it exchanges and exchangers and that text would go in 
  there.
Dave Longley:   Are allowing us to.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so that effectively says ready for PRI I'm a 
  bit unclear about what would be written in the PR but we think 
  what we are suggesting is.
Manu Sporny:  This is you know ready for PR in some some case any 
  any suggestions on what the pr would say.
Joe Andrieu:  I think we're talking about it might be 
  implementation guidance and we haven't talked about how we're 
  structuring that sort of thing like if you want to integrate the 
  VC API with oid for our poor VC or whatever a section that 
  describes how you do that I think would answer devices question.
Joe Andrieu:  In terms of trying to understand the flow.
Joe Andrieu:  May I let my biggest hesitation there is it may be 
  that we need the exchangers to be integrated and it's not doesn't 
  belong in an implementation guidance section but it may be in an 
  example of how you use exchanges.
Joe Andrieu:  But I think we need to refactor for exchanges in 
  any case because I do think an exchanger is probably a first 
  class component that has its own endpoints and we haven't worked 
  through that stuff either.
Manu Sporny:  Okay go ahead Patrick.
Patrick St-Louis:  I totally forgot to say but this week it's 
  slightly off topic here when I go see the VC API page and all the 
  sections issue credential get credential they're all empty is 
  that normal.
Manu Sporny:  That's probably because there is a syntax error in 
  the OS file in the parsers choking on it because we did we did a 
  merge last week and I didn't check so thank you for that we 
  should look into that.
Manu Sporny:  That's the unfortunate thing about building the 
  building the spec from code is that the build process chokes from 
  time to time and you can't see it.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so the next step here is to raise a PR that 
  details how oid for can be integrated with the Capi exchanges.
Manu Sporny:  All right and then I'll mark this as ready for PR.

Topic: Do the /exchanges/* endpoints need authz?

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/279
Manu Sporny:  And we will move on to the next item next topic up 
  is do the exchanges and pointsme.tv this is issue 279 and I keep 
  thinking we have discussed and settle this issue but it doesn't 
  look like it super long discussion so I guess I raised this.
Manu Sporny:  Exchange endpoints have optional artsy.
Manu Sporny:  It's not required.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah we don't use oauth2 we used it odds for some 
  exchanges the approach has been challenged to be insecure so this 
  issue is to discuss the attack models insecurity characteristics 
  of this approach so let's see there's been a long discussion here 
  about what this would look like.
Manu Sporny:  See it's restaurants.
Manu Sporny:  So this was a big back and forth between I guess 
  Tobias and myself and this was when we were trying to figure out 
  how I D yd fit in like what was the difference between VC API and 
  oid for and things have converged now where you can do oid for 
  using the C API exchanges.
Manu Sporny:  Demonstrating kind of what these end and flows look 
  like.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah this is a pretty involved discussion.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Dave.
Dave Longley:  Yeah I would suggest that the same PR we just 
  talked about detailing exchangers and how 084 integrates with the 
  VC API exchange would could be used to close this out these these 
  are all these issues seem to be interrelated and getting spec 
  text in there that shows how these things work would allow us to 
  continue and see whether or not any new issues need to be raised.
Manu Sporny:  So it looks like we discussed this two months ago 
  yeah plus one that Dave looks like we discussed this two months 
  ago what did we say.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah I like what Dave said I think there's also I 
  think confusion between the exchange and points that create 
  exchanges and exchange what a capability URL as I think the term 
  we're using that would invoke that exchange or use that exchange 
  and I think they have different off.
Manu Sporny:  Yes correct it looks like the last time we 
  discussed this in January we just said we need to assign what 
  type of security is on each end point and then we can close the 
  issue and we've done that we were just that PR so I'm wondering 
  if we should make this harder on ourselves than it needs to be 
  nobody has objected to this path forward we did it.
Manu Sporny:  We're going to do the other thing in a separate you 
  know we've already said ready for PR in the other thing so that's 
  going to happen anyway so.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Dave.
Dave Longley:  Yeah I was just going to say I'm happy to link to 
  that other issue and close this one and say there's PR that will 
  be done that will detail you know but we can point to those other 
  details we don't need you don't need to type everything I'm 
  saying here but it's we're going to detail with it what exchanges 
  are we going to be clear on the thing Joe just raised about how 
  the Aussie is different for creating exchanges versus using it 
  and those will be details that'll be in the spec and that we've 
  already worked out and.
Dave Longley:   Sit down somewhere and some other issue.
Manu Sporny:  Tell me about me tab and get the pr that signed.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah my only hesitation man who was I wanted to go 
  double-check if what we did is what you thought it was.
Joe Andrieu:  And it's not rendering so.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah so we had security schemes here and we set 
  security schemes on everything so I'll just I'll just note that 
  the group has set security schemes says set available security 
  schemes for all in points and PR 334.
Joe Andrieu:  So I don't think we have which is a nuanced I'm 
  trying to get in here like I think the exchanger is still not 
  well represented and I think it's important to understand the 
  exchanger so I think we started moving in that direction by 
  providing the security on each component but I think we haven't 
  refactor the component was are learning that yes an exchanger is 
  a first class component it will have it.
Joe Andrieu:   So no points which is how you set up.
Joe Andrieu:  Exchanges that you're going to give to other people 
  so there's a little bit of work still to do about refactoring the 
  exchanges so it can fit into this documentation.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so okay so which dress is part of this issue 
  future PR is plans to refactor exchanges as first class component 
  as a first class component.
Manu Sporny:  Explain how exchanges are created figured and then 
  used.
Dave Longley:  Yeah you should say exchangers their exchangers 
  are what will be configured and then exchanges will be built off 
  of them.
Manu Sporny:  Next Step because you raised a PR to refactor 
  exchanges is the first thing that exchangers are created 
  configured and then exchanges are.
Manu Sporny:  Okay alright so I'll say this is ready for PR as 
  well.
Manu Sporny:  All right so that's that item.
Manu Sporny:  Next topic up.

Topic: What happens when you delete a revocable credential?

Manu Sporny:  Is what happens when you delete a revocable 
  credential.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/276
Manu Sporny:  And I think the question really is should you 
  revoke that credential what happens to the status bits all we 
  talked about this.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Patrick.
Patrick St-Louis:  When we say when you delete a revocable 
  credential or we talking about like who's deleting the credential 
  here.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I think this is the last time we talked about 
  this Joe you mentioned that it's difficult to explore without 
  knowing which system component we're talking about we have 
  labeled those now issue or service so I think we're talking about 
  the issue or service.
Patrick St-Louis:  Because for me is the holder without because 
  once and here we talking about like issued credential so like 
  it's the holder.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah that's a great point the group discussed this 
  3411 Helicon and let's see.
Manu Sporny:  Noted that we have now signed have now split system 
  components and have issue of coordinators and issuer services 
  question raised about which service is going to delete the make 
  sure service.
Manu Sporny:   Or the holder.
Manu Sporny:  Service not clear what the delete ferment delete 
  credential holder wallet is semantically different than delete on 
  nature app so that's what you just said Patrick group needs the 
  caller the component in the semantics around delete operation 
  identified in order to make progress on this issue so perhaps we 
  can talk about what happens when you do a delete call on.
Manu Sporny:   On a.
Manu Sporny:  If I'd credential in the issue or service and then 
  the older service go let's see where's Q go ahead Joe.
Joe Andrieu:  I think there's there's an easy answer to that no 
  here and that I think delete and revoke semantics are profoundly 
  different no matter where you're doing them delete to me is about 
  removing the digital object from wherever they're just being 
  stored and whoever controls that storage should be able to delete 
  it right so if it's the holder they can delete it if it's an 
  issue or service and the running out of data they could delete it 
  without revoking it.
Joe Andrieu:   It like the the semantics I don't know of any.
Joe Andrieu:  Where we know that the semantics are guaranteed to 
  always be aligned.
Joe Andrieu:  Did you allow them to be separate.
Manu Sporny:  Okay go ahead base.
Dave Longley:  Yeah I was going to recommend something similar 
  here where I don't know how much we have to try and force 
  interoperability or be really prescriptive I think we can allow 
  implementations to just perform the delete and we could also 
  allow implementations to throw an error if they want to say you 
  need to revoke this or you know there's a status list associated 
  with this and if you and it's an error to.
Dave Longley:   I'll eat it in till.
Dave Longley:  You something else.
Dave Longley:  I don't know what that something else would would 
  necessarily be other than changing the status on the credential 
  before you delete it.
Dave Longley:  I'm not sure how much we need to try really hard 
  to get an interoperability here because it's not that clear to me 
  how people would want these systems to perform.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah that mean there's just a point of 
  clarification I guess we don't currently have a requirement I 
  believe for anyone to store issued VCS that correct.
Dave Longley:  That's correct but if you're going to be using 
  some kind of status list there's a presumption that there's some 
  mechanism you're keeping around some kind of information around 
  those VCS to enable the status to be changed.
Joe Andrieu:  Sure but they may not have a.
Dave Longley:  Yeah if they don't have a status then it could 
  easily be implemented and you know I their implementations in the 
  wild that exist now that don't store the credentials at all if 
  there's no status list.
Joe Andrieu:  Right well my point is on the server if they don't 
  store it delete said no up but revoke is not necessarily.
Dave Longley:  Right but that's the case we're so if they're not 
  tracking status then revoke is also a no op or it's an error.
Joe Andrieu:  Correct but if they are tracking status but they're 
  not storing it they may still be able to revoke it.
Dave Longley:  That's true but that means they're storing some 
  kind of information around the credential and and so I guess the 
  question becomes when you delete a credential or you deleting the 
  ability to modify its status as well.
Joe Andrieu:  Right which is a question I guess what is which 
  maybe we've already said right what's the scope of delete are you 
  talking about an issued VC that's a data object that is now going 
  to be removed from Storage are you talking about removing a bunch 
  of metadata around it that is used to manage that particular 
  object.
Dave Longley:  Yeah and I would really think it would be the 
  latter otherwise you would have no way to remove that information 
  we would have no API that does that and so there might be some 
  linkage between status and storage here.
Dave Longley:  Even even though the semantics are very different 
  there's there might still be some linkage here.
Manu Sporny:  All right so based on that.
Manu Sporny:  I mean it sounds like we don't really want to say 
  anything specific here we meeting like we don't know if we really 
  need to have interop at this layer there are things people should 
  consider and maybe we should document those in security 
  considerations or privacy considerations section Alan you're on 
  the queue.
Alan Karp:  Yeah if the if you revoke you have to have some place 
  where you remember that it's revoked doesn't have to be you there 
  has to be some sort of crl so people can check to see if it's 
  been revoked all you need is CID or hash of the thing not have to 
  store the actual certificate but I think you need that somewhere.
Dave Longley:  Yeah other advice we might want to give damp Le 
  manners is in this is also just this is for users of the system 
  including expiration dates on VCS make it easier for you to know 
  that you can safely delete them from storage at least you know on 
  the issue or service you would not need to necessarily once the 
  VC is expired you could your software could probably take the 
  approach that.
Dave Longley:   That it can be safely deleted and removed from 
  different.
Manu Sporny:  So let me try and formulate this into like 
  something actionable here so I think what we're saying is we 
  don't want to give like normative guidance what we may want to do 
  is provide some implementation guidance of what implementer 
  should think of when they're doing deletion and revocation and 
  there's some things up here that I missed that I want to make 
  sure so I'd like to create a list of things that should go in the 
  pr.
Manu Sporny:   Give me one.
Manu Sporny:  For I go back to the cue The Next Step here is to 
  provide a PR that okay okay.
Joe Andrieu:  Hold on I'm not I'm not sure that's the next step 
  Manning the.
Manu Sporny:  When you start when you start talking it auto 
  removed you know.
Joe Andrieu:  Which is weird why did I go off to Q I didn't do 
  that anyway doesn't matter yeah it's too smart by half okay what 
  how Allen walks through the question that made me think what's 
  more interesting to me is what is the semantics of deleting a 
  revoked credential.
Joe Andrieu:  So one of the Notions I think it was how Dave 
  phrased that we're talking about the metadata as well well can I 
  purge can I purchase this thing can I get it totally out of my 
  system and so but if I revoked it as Alan put it someone has to 
  remember that it's revoked and so I think this is about there's 
  different semantics probably for delete for revoke and maybe a 
  purge or some other thing and I think that's the space we need to 
  understand better before we get.
Joe Andrieu:   Get to implementation.
<phil_t3> Wouldn't the issuer want to maintain retain info about 
  expired credential?  This may be recorded in a log file somewhere 
  but an expiration isn't necessarily no longer useful.
Dave Longley:  Yeah I think we also want to be careful with if we 
  were to introduce a new semantics of purge that starts to create 
  an implication on how you go about implementing the system of 
  course looking at it from the other direction if you don't have 
  that Purge then you you still you you're also creating a 
  prescription for how you ought to go about implementing the 
  system so it's it's touchy here especially in the reason.
Dave Longley:  It's touchy is we don't want to go and make a 
  normative decision around something where we're not sure where we 
  want to see it play out in the market and have people experiment 
  with how this should work and if there is a way that it comes out 
  that is the best way for it to work then we can be normative 
  about it but I think it's too early to do that now.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so what concrete thing can we do here say that 
  we considered this and it was too early go ahead Patrick.
Patrick St-Louis:  I don't know if drafting is sort of Matrix 
  could help of all these semantics like if the credential has been 
  revoked and you deleted then consider this if they're going to 
  try has not been revoked deleted consider this and so on.
Manu Sporny:  We could do that.
Manu Sporny:  Mmm well they're at present.
Manu Sporny:  It sounds like we need to consider what the the two 
  things Joe mentioned which is you know the delete and well 
  there's really delete and well there's there's there's delete and 
  then there's the status list semantics of revoke and suspend in 
  we may want to do what Patrick said which is just go through 
  every iterate through every possibility if you have X and you 
  know go through the Matrix and and flip all the.
Manu Sporny:   It's and then have create some.
Manu Sporny:  Each case in with respect to like what people 
  should be aware of but not yet any kind of normative language say 
  hey we thought about this here's where we got to it's not clear 
  what the best way is right now there may be a best way in the 
  future but we are collecting you know Market input at this point 
  to decide if there's should be some normative guidance we get 
  around this.
Manu Sporny:   This and we can just you know flashing.
Manu Sporny:  Add with the.
Manu Sporny:  You marker and effectively that can stay open until 
  we get to you know standards track and then get all the way to 
  recommendation so that might what thoughts about that approach.
Manu Sporny:  Okay thumbs up now to remember what I actually said 
  so the next step here is to raise a PR that iterates through all 
  possibilities of delete plus status list Otis has provided.
Manu Sporny:  Thoughts on each it's through a matrix of all 
  possibilities.
Manu Sporny:  Provide thoughts on each combination but make it 
  clear that it's too early for normative guidance.
Dave Longley:  Yeah we could also suggest to implementers that 
  they might want to implement delete a sort of a soft delete where 
  there will be some effectively garbage collection later when all 
  the references to the credential are gone maybe the credentials 
  expired its status list is expired and and so on and then it can 
  be cleaned up that's something that implementers could 
  potentially do.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah I would add or or abandoned like to Talons 
  point you may be able to have a substrate out there that you 
  can't erase from that you could put a permanent relocation on.
Alan Karp:  The expiration date is critical otherwise you've got 
  an unbounded storage I mean storage is cheap but the only time 
  you can really forget about a revoked can revoke certificate is 
  when it's expired otherwise you've got to keep at least an 
  identifier for it around.
Manu Sporny:  Okay alright so let's just say this is ready for PR 
  for now and we will raise a PR and then check the language in the 
  pr and iterate from there once we get there.
Phil Long:  Just want to be clear that expired there's a number 
  of reasons why you might want to keep around an expired 
  credential both the on the issue or side and the and the holder 
  side and I mean expired can be done for can occur for lots of 
  reasons it doesn't necessarily mean you're even thinking about it 
  removing it because the person is going to use that for to a 
  reapplication to.
Phil Long:   To extend it or something like that.
Phil Long:  From holders point of view it's expired but it's 
  still something they went through and they want to present to 
  somebody.
Alan Karp:  I'm talking to you I agree completely that you often 
  want to keep these around forever for audit purposes.
Phil Long:  Yeah that's a whole other thing I'm assuming that 
  there's a log separate from all of this where that where that 
  sort of thing is being managed so that it hasn't been stated.
Manu Sporny:  Apologies and been looking at the Q so filled that 
  you and then Ellen I guess okay.
Phil Long:  Not we I just gave you what house Alan went before me 
  and I just followed up.
Manu Sporny:  Okay jeez it's moving fast Dave and then Ellen.
Dave Longley:  Yeah so I also agree with what Phil just said but 
  to clarify on the garbage collection comment I made I did intend 
  for it to mean that if the delete command had been issued then it 
  would become garbage collectible you can make it so that your 
  system did not issue those commands and you just kept things 
  around you could also have some external auditing system that 
  would keep a permanent record of everything expired that goes 
  into like cold storage so there's there's a number of different.
Dave Longley:   Approaches for.
<phil_t3> Understood - just want that guidance to be clear  to 
  people implementing
Dave Longley:  This use case but the main point here is without 
  calling delete I would not recommend that an implementation Auto 
  expire things but of course you know maybe your implementation 
  has a feature where you could set that up the configuration or 
  something.
Alan Karp:  I took my sorry I jumped the queue so I took myself 
  off.
Manu Sporny:  Got it okay all right so thank you we've got a 
  ready for pull request here.
Manu Sporny:  And so basically what we're doing is we're 
  providing thoughts to implementers on various things they should 
  consider but no normative gotten set this point and we're going 
  to make it clear that we're looking for input on what should 
  happen in this case.
Manu Sporny:  Okay and that's it we are at time thank you 
  everyone for the productive discussion we got through three 
  issues for items today next week will be a demo by Patrick and 
  then we'll have a set of other issues we can process if we have 
  time also John will look for your email out on the ccg mailing 
  list to join.
Manu Sporny:  In the open Wallet Foundation call okay that's it 
  thanks everyone I have a great rest of the week will chat with 
  everyone next week take care bye.
