[2023-04-11T19:03:28.661Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:03:28.664Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:03:28.664Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:03:28.665Z]	<Alan_Karp>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:03:29.292Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:03:32.406Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:03:38.076Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:03:40.527Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:03:54.095Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:04:08.792Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-04-11T19:04:08.792Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: vcapi
[2023-04-11T19:04:31.229Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: welcome everyone to the verifiable credentials API work item call this is Tuesday April 11th 2023 our agenda is in the chat channel.
[2023-04-11T19:04:33.153Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2023Apr/0022.html
[2023-04-11T19:04:42.093Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:04:44.431Z]	<John_Henderson>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:05:11.780Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: On the agenda today we have issue processing largely so we'll do some Community updates and then move onto issue processing first one is an old one why do we believe it's a good idea to return an issued credential to an internal caller the next item is do the exchange.
[2023-04-11T19:05:21.045Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:05:28.147Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I need authorization and then finally what happens when you delete a revocable credential and we'll get through those as we can any other updates or changes to the agenda anything else we want to discuss today.
[2023-04-11T19:05:30.642Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Patrick.
[2023-04-11T19:06:00.302Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: I had a question for the issue credentials issue and point I would like to discuss the question is in between the time that you send the post request and you receive the sign credential is it acceptable that there would be other operations happening like an exchange between the issuer in the holder so I'd like to discuss this.
[2023-04-11T19:06:23.475Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Interesting yeah that's a great great question we will put it up first item on the agenda in people can pontificate on that point and yeah we'll start the discussion so please remind me Patrick right after we do community updates will pick up that question any other item we want to discuss today anything else we should cover.
[2023-04-11T19:06:37.121Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Relevant Community Updates
[2023-04-11T19:06:55.089Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay if not let's get into Let's see we all know each other here yes so let's go into relevant Community updates I'll kick us off does well let me let me kick us off by going to the actually it's the ccwg mailing list there.
[2023-04-11T19:07:08.640Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	The EdDSA Data Integrity Cryptosuite https://w3c.github.io/vc-di-eddsa/FPWD/2023-04-18/
[2023-04-11T19:07:08.640Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	The ECDSA Data Integrity Cryptosuite https://w3c.github.io/vc-di-ecdsa/FPWD/2023-04-18/
[2023-04-11T19:07:10.882Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:07:27.800Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Just a quick announcement that we've got first public working drafts going out for the EDSA crypto sweet and the ecdsa crypto sweet put those links in the chat Channel this is a part of the w3c process it's an F PW D basically is just a signal that you know the group doesn't agree on anything in the specification but we do intend to take this thing.
[2023-04-11T19:07:28.221Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  NG all the way through the global standards track.
[2023-04-11T19:07:57.876Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: These documents were approved nine months ago to transition out of ccg but the ccwg didn't accept them until just towards the beginning of this year and a couple weeks back and the first step official step on their Journey well I guess the second official step on their journey is being published as an F PW D so we're targeting the 18th the vote on that will happen tomorrow.
[2023-04-11T19:08:04.453Z]	<Eric_S>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:08:28.652Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: No it'll happen tomorrow and we'll go from there BBS doesn't have enough PWD yet it needs a little bit more work before that happens in the status list twenty twenty one thing doesn't have a FWD yet that's that's Point okay that's it as far as up do I guess the other other important thing to mention is the.
[2023-04-11T19:08:51.639Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This discussion has kicked off we use multi formats for dids and signatures and all kinds of other things that go that are passed over the VC API and so that discussion just respond to the multi formats folks questions has been kicked off this week go ahead Patrick.
[2023-04-11T19:09:07.396Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: I just wanted to mention that I was saying as demonstration I wanted to prepare for I'm on Crimson is should I would like to propose to have it next week.
[2023-04-11T19:09:17.159Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Perfect awesome we will definitely put that first week first thing on next week's agenda and thank you for working on that and putting it together Patrick.
[2023-04-11T19:09:17.239Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	There will be papers presented Thursday from RWOT11 noon EDT:
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81123523825?pwd=dUhoRkd5eVVSb2dRYXdSZFFRSG05dz09
[2023-04-11T19:09:21.416Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead John.
[2023-04-11T19:09:37.468Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: Oh yeah so following up from the open knowledge Foundation topic from last week so the slot to actually presented the open wall Foundation is is arranged so that would be.
[2023-04-11T19:09:41.306Z]	<John_Henderson>	https://github.com/openwallet-foundation/architecture-sig/blob/main/meeting-details.md
[2023-04-11T19:09:52.788Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: We could X Monday at 11 a.m. Pacific use the media details in the chat if anyone wants to join it and the meeting will be recorded I'll be presenting roughly what I presented last week.
[2023-04-11T19:10:01.039Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Excellent thank you for scheduling that let me bring that up here thank you for scheduling that looks like to zoom meeting.
[2023-04-11T19:10:08.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep 11 a.m. Pacific so hopefully everyone here can make that call.
[2023-04-11T19:10:29.033Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I believe I should be able to make that call so yeah as ideally all of us show up on that call I'll send that out to the ccg actually John would you mind sending that out to the ccg mailing list you might get a couple more people joining if you announce it to the list.
[2023-04-11T19:10:33.137Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: Sure just saying that the presentation will be happening.
[2023-04-11T19:10:47.147Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: Great idea thanks that will do.
[2023-04-11T19:10:58.504Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah yeah there's a presentation on the verifiable credential API happening to the open Wallet foundation and then give them the meeting details and say everyone's invited to join yeah okay awesome thank you and thank you for continuing to push that forward any other updates Community relates.
[2023-04-11T19:11:09.665Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay if not let's go into Patrick yeah go ahead.
[2023-04-11T19:11:24.839Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): Man you just just I just put it in chat a little bit ago but there is a presentation on Thursday at noon eastern time of papers from the are wot 11 meeting that are going to be presented and the zoom link is there.
[2023-04-11T19:11:29.161Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Excellent thank you I see it yep.
[2023-04-11T19:11:37.631Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay any other community updates.
[2023-04-11T19:11:49.004Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Alright if not let's jump into Patrick's topic Patrick how would you handle this.
[2023-04-11T19:12:18.244Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: What happens between issuance -- POST to response?
[2023-04-11T19:12:20.442Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: So if I was to give it a title is it acceptable that in between the post request and the response on their credentials issuer endpoint there's other steps happening than just the signature of the verifiable credential by other steps I would specific scenario I have in mind is a will showcase it next week.
[2023-04-11T19:12:51.701Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Exchange between the issuer and the holder to provide so that the older can provide additional information for the signature of the credential using a different cryptographic sweet and in this case it's it's a concept called The Link Secret so the holder provides a link secret that is embedded in the signature.
[2023-04-11T19:12:59.067Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: That allows the holder to do selective disclosure and so on.
[2023-04-11T19:13:03.533Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Great got it Dave you're in the queue.
[2023-04-11T19:13:34.908Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yes so in general I would say that you can as long as you're implementing to the API you can do just about whatever you would want in the background or you know you can hide whatever implementation details you would want to their however for that particular end point I would recommend not doing that and what you just described to me sounds like a really good use case just for using the exchanges API it seems like what's going on.
[2023-04-11T19:13:35.455Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  on is you have a holder whose use.
[2023-04-11T19:14:06.378Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Later their client and if they're interfacing if that client is interfacing with an exchange and point that exchange endpoint could ask further whatever it needs and that could be provided to The Exchange endpoint which then would make a call to the issue endpoint with you know it would end when it makes a call that issue and pointed would have everything that it needs because it would have collected it from holder so the kinds of exchange the I mean they are exchanges the kinds of exchange you're talking about seems.
[2023-04-11T19:14:06.811Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  like it.
[2023-04-11T19:14:17.389Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Into the exchange flow not that it should be inserted into the issue service that's what it seems like to me.
[2023-04-11T19:14:45.151Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Yeah I think that makes a lot of sense because I actually what's happening is that when you have the payload for the credentials issue you know it's like a credential json-ld at the moment it's a json-ld credential and I don't see a way to add that extra information besides having a new field and the options field that would have that information because what needs to happen here in my.
[2023-04-11T19:14:45.522Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick:  sort of.
[2023-04-11T19:15:14.110Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Are you do is from that credential there's a credential offer that gets generated presented to the holder to hold their generates a credential request that forwards it to the issuer and then the issuer can sign the credential and issue it so that that is the the scenario.
[2023-04-11T19:15:43.469Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: And I do see that this sort of offer request does fit in the exchange service that's from what I understand that's what it's for just I have a hard time how even after this result this can be sort of made visible in the currently defined payload of the credentials issue and point that extra information.
[2023-04-11T19:16:13.194Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah it seems like we need to find a place to slot that in I mean using there are a number of people that want to use links secret be able to issue links secret based credentials and so we should make sure that the issue endpoint has a mechanism by which you can send it if it has to be options right now that's the way to go right now but maybe we we just need another field for some additional information that the issuer would need for.
[2023-04-11T19:16:13.610Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  depending on the type of crime.
[2023-04-11T19:16:27.006Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Okay maybe we can further discuss this next week I love like something to show it so we can be more tangible than the discussions.
[2023-04-11T19:16:29.144Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah sounds good.
[2023-04-11T19:16:41.466Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Excellent any other points I mean I agree with what what Dave said any other points comments.
[2023-04-11T19:16:54.100Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Exchanges versus the issue endpoint and how we may convey x-ray information to the issue endpoint right now.
[2023-04-11T19:17:27.910Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Why do we believe it's a good idea to return an issued credential
to an internal caller?
[2023-04-11T19:17:31.389Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay yeah and it would be good to see maybe Patrick when we look at you demo next week we'll be able to you know provide more input to that question all right next well first second topic up today is why do we believe it's a good idea to return an issued credential to an internal caller so this is a very very.
[2023-04-11T19:17:31.793Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  well it's just an old.
[2023-04-11T19:17:33.931Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/48
[2023-04-11T19:17:49.416Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: From two years ago plus much as much discussion has happened since then and we have a better understanding about our kind of model let me go ahead and pull this issue up.
[2023-04-11T19:18:02.010Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:18:22.253Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so the the first you know it started with this issued credentials have flows to Holders the API requires issuers to also support flowing them to an internal caller for some reason you know not aware of an architectural reason areas are c36 excited but there's no concept of an internal destination and so the conversation goes back and forth the bit until Daniel says.
[2023-04-11T19:18:51.790Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You know this set of issue apis is motivated by DHS asking for something common that it can ask all issuing systems to support its intent is to impose interoperability constraints on the whole industry this endpoint is built for internal callers therefore the credential is for an internal call or so and then you know he goes on to say I don't believe well let's see.
[2023-04-11T19:19:04.997Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This was kind of like you know I don't want DHS to tell me it doesn't like everything software because it doesn't support you know this thing.
[2023-04-11T19:19:18.409Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And the concern would go away if we make you know credentials something optional meeting don't have internal apis I think.
[2023-04-11T19:19:23.493Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Joe.
[2023-04-11T19:20:01.384Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah I think I think this is confusion about this service versus the coordinator I think we are specifically addressing his concerns by refactoring the components so I think our our languaging of how we are defining the API makes this to my sense a non-issue although Daniel may still have issues.
[2023-04-11T19:20:13.236Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: My kids his his presumption is the.
[2023-04-11T19:20:19.812Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: The Entity who is the issuer is only able to give it to a holder.
[2023-04-11T19:20:47.715Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah now that we've split it between it's the coordinator that hands it to the holder and this API that we're talking about is specifically on an internal service and so the world Daniel wants still exists in this back-end issue or service is optional like you don't have to have an issue or service you know if you want interrupt you can define an issue or service which you don't have to have it.
[2023-04-11T19:20:52.600Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: That's right if you want DHHS to buy your software it would be good to have this interface.
[2023-04-11T19:21:14.022Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Let's see getting close Okay so so we did address this last year ago literally in Market pending close and Tobias.
[2023-04-11T19:21:19.769Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Asks you know is the VC API internal style API.
[2023-04-11T19:21:28.325Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The endpoint definition that the wallet interacts with is out of scope with exchanges it no longer is.
[2023-04-11T19:21:41.566Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Right I think it's this languaging around internal style API.
[2023-04-11T19:21:48.789Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: We language differently to avoid the confusion that causes question.
[2023-04-11T19:22:10.262Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so let's see the group discussed this on the donkey 2304 1150 API telecon.
[2023-04-11T19:22:33.892Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That we have changed we have a lot of discussion around the difference between and issuer control what do we coordinator coordinator and issue or service.
[2023-04-11T19:22:47.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Away from the language related to internal versus external.
[2023-04-11T19:22:50.401Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q?
[2023-04-11T19:23:13.766Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You have also ensured that implementation of any of these mechanisms is optional and have provided one way in which interoperability can be achieved.
[2023-04-11T19:23:23.655Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Implement the issuer service I or implement the.
[2023-04-11T19:23:29.127Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes you are coordinator API.
[2023-04-11T19:23:49.253Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So I guess you know you had yet please.
[2023-04-11T19:24:15.173Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Let me could I speak minute the I was just revisiting the last question from Tobias part of the challenges is the language in uses slightly different words than we are like we don't have a thing called a wallet that we know that the holder stuff is wallet e but the boundaries between those two have the same sort of boundaries as service and coordinator.
[2023-04-11T19:24:15.593Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  and accept are less well defined.
[2023-04-11T19:24:49.578Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So I'm just wondering he because he brings in oauth 2 or 0 IDC and has a very specific question about how the wallets includes this access token and I think we as a group haven't really talked about how we support 0002 and oid see except for the fact that maybe magically exchangers could help with that but maybe if we were to think about how does the VC API integrated oauth2 Roi d.c..
[2023-04-11T19:24:50.088Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  that may help the use case to bias is trying to address.
[2023-04-11T19:24:56.390Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: What was that last thing you said Joe I missed it.
[2023-04-11T19:25:09.456Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: That if if we were to discuss or document how the VC API works with oauth2 or oid see that I think would help to revise this question.
[2023-04-11T19:25:18.566Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah it should be 0 ID for that's the good correction.
[2023-04-11T19:25:31.608Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Well I mean I don't know keeps the name keeps changing so it's 0 ID for as of last iiw yeah exactly go ahead Dave.
[2023-04-11T19:26:01.261Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah sort of in response to Joe talking about figuring out how to make exchanges work with oid for we have done that with oid for BC already and so I do think it's just a matter of documenting how that works and I'm not sure we might already have another issue around exchanges and properly documenting more on around it exchanges and exchangers and that text would go in there.
[2023-04-11T19:26:01.675Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  are allowing us to.
[2023-04-11T19:26:19.343Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so that effectively says ready for PRI I'm a bit unclear about what would be written in the PR but we think what we are suggesting is.
[2023-04-11T19:26:27.445Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This is you know ready for PR in some some case any any suggestions on what the pr would say.
[2023-04-11T19:26:52.410Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I think we're talking about it might be implementation guidance and we haven't talked about how we're structuring that sort of thing like if you want to integrate the VC API with oid for our poor VC or whatever a section that describes how you do that I think would answer devices question.
[2023-04-11T19:26:56.101Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: In terms of trying to understand the flow.
[2023-04-11T19:27:21.780Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: May I let my biggest hesitation there is it may be that we need the exchangers to be integrated and it's not doesn't belong in an implementation guidance section but it may be in an example of how you use exchanges.
[2023-04-11T19:27:40.538Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: But I think we need to refactor for exchanges in any case because I do think an exchanger is probably a first class component that has its own endpoints and we haven't worked through that stuff either.
[2023-04-11T19:27:48.998Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay go ahead Patrick.
[2023-04-11T19:28:06.905Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: I totally forgot to say but this week it's slightly off topic here when I go see the VC API page and all the sections issue credential get credential they're all empty is that normal.
[2023-04-11T19:28:16.968Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That's probably because there is a syntax error in the OS file in the parsers choking on it because we did we did a merge last week and I didn't check so thank you for that we should look into that.
[2023-04-11T19:28:31.842Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That's the unfortunate thing about building the building the spec from code is that the build process chokes from time to time and you can't see it.
[2023-04-11T19:28:53.459Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so the next step here is to raise a PR that details how oid for can be integrated with the Capi exchanges.
[2023-04-11T19:29:02.558Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right and then I'll mark this as ready for PR.
[2023-04-11T19:29:12.915Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Do the /exchanges/* endpoints need authz?
[2023-04-11T19:29:17.450Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/279
[2023-04-11T19:29:34.229Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And we will move on to the next item next topic up is do the exchanges and pointsme.tv this is issue 279 and I keep thinking we have discussed and settle this issue but it doesn't look like it super long discussion so I guess I raised this.
[2023-04-11T19:29:41.409Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Exchange endpoints have optional artsy.
[2023-04-11T19:29:44.406Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's not required.
[2023-04-11T19:30:13.223Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah we don't use oauth2 we used it odds for some exchanges the approach has been challenged to be insecure so this issue is to discuss the attack models insecurity characteristics of this approach so let's see there's been a long discussion here about what this would look like.
[2023-04-11T19:30:22.105Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: See it's restaurants.
[2023-04-11T19:30:50.293Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So this was a big back and forth between I guess Tobias and myself and this was when we were trying to figure out how I D yd fit in like what was the difference between VC API and oid for and things have converged now where you can do oid for using the C API exchanges.
[2023-04-11T19:30:57.977Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Demonstrating kind of what these end and flows look like.
[2023-04-11T19:31:04.451Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah this is a pretty involved discussion.
[2023-04-11T19:31:11.676Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Dave.
[2023-04-11T19:31:40.949Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I would suggest that the same PR we just talked about detailing exchangers and how 084 integrates with the VC API exchange would could be used to close this out these these are all these issues seem to be interrelated and getting spec text in there that shows how these things work would allow us to continue and see whether or not any new issues need to be raised.
[2023-04-11T19:31:48.610Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So it looks like we discussed this two months ago yeah plus one that Dave looks like we discussed this two months ago what did we say.
[2023-04-11T19:32:18.799Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah I like what Dave said I think there's also I think confusion between the exchange and points that create exchanges and exchange what a capability URL as I think the term we're using that would invoke that exchange or use that exchange and I think they have different off.
[2023-04-11T19:32:46.281Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes correct it looks like the last time we discussed this in January we just said we need to assign what type of security is on each end point and then we can close the issue and we've done that we were just that PR so I'm wondering if we should make this harder on ourselves than it needs to be nobody has objected to this path forward we did it.
[2023-04-11T19:32:55.951Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We're going to do the other thing in a separate you know we've already said ready for PR in the other thing so that's going to happen anyway so.
[2023-04-11T19:32:58.016Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Dave.
[2023-04-11T19:33:30.653Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I was just going to say I'm happy to link to that other issue and close this one and say there's PR that will be done that will detail you know but we can point to those other details we don't need you don't need to type everything I'm saying here but it's we're going to detail with it what exchanges are we going to be clear on the thing Joe just raised about how the Aussie is different for creating exchanges versus using it and those will be details that'll be in the spec and that we've already worked out and.
[2023-04-11T19:33:31.059Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  sit down somewhere and some other issue.
[2023-04-11T19:33:38.910Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Tell me about me tab and get the pr that signed.
[2023-04-11T19:33:48.173Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah my only hesitation man who was I wanted to go double-check if what we did is what you thought it was.
[2023-04-11T19:33:53.182Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: And it's not rendering so.
[2023-04-11T19:34:19.139Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah so we had security schemes here and we set security schemes on everything so I'll just I'll just note that the group has set security schemes says set available security schemes for all in points and PR 334.
[2023-04-11T19:34:51.585Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So I don't think we have which is a nuanced I'm trying to get in here like I think the exchanger is still not well represented and I think it's important to understand the exchanger so I think we started moving in that direction by providing the security on each component but I think we haven't refactor the component was are learning that yes an exchanger is a first class component it will have it.
[2023-04-11T19:34:51.974Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  so no points which is how you set up.
[2023-04-11T19:35:03.138Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Exchanges that you're going to give to other people so there's a little bit of work still to do about refactoring the exchanges so it can fit into this documentation.
[2023-04-11T19:35:13.421Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:35:25.290Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so okay so which dress is part of this issue future PR is plans to refactor exchanges as first class component as a first class component.
[2023-04-11T19:35:38.655Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Explain how exchanges are created figured and then used.
[2023-04-11T19:35:45.536Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah you should say exchangers their exchangers are what will be configured and then exchanges will be built off of them.
[2023-04-11T19:36:21.307Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Next Step because you raised a PR to refactor exchanges is the first thing that exchangers are created configured and then exchanges are.
[2023-04-11T19:36:26.538Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay alright so I'll say this is ready for PR as well.
[2023-04-11T19:36:39.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right so that's that item.
[2023-04-11T19:36:42.511Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Next topic up.
[2023-04-11T19:36:49.166Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: What happens when you delete a revocable credential?
[2023-04-11T19:36:53.012Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is what happens when you delete a revocable credential.
[2023-04-11T19:36:54.312Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/276
[2023-04-11T19:37:09.898Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And I think the question really is should you revoke that credential what happens to the status bits all we talked about this.
[2023-04-11T19:37:14.656Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Patrick.
[2023-04-11T19:37:25.135Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: When we say when you delete a revocable credential or we talking about like who's deleting the credential here.
[2023-04-11T19:37:43.583Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah I think this is the last time we talked about this Joe you mentioned that it's difficult to explore without knowing which system component we're talking about we have labeled those now issue or service so I think we're talking about the issue or service.
[2023-04-11T19:37:53.921Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: Because for me is the holder without because once and here we talking about like issued credential so like it's the holder.
[2023-04-11T19:38:10.098Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah that's a great point the group discussed this 3411 Helicon and let's see.
[2023-04-11T19:38:41.263Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Noted that we have now signed have now split system components and have issue of coordinators and issuer services question raised about which service is going to delete the make sure service.
[2023-04-11T19:38:41.546Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  or the holder.
[2023-04-11T19:39:12.491Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Service not clear what the delete ferment delete credential holder wallet is semantically different than delete on nature app so that's what you just said Patrick group needs the caller the component in the semantics around delete operation identified in order to make progress on this issue so perhaps we can talk about what happens when you do a delete call on.
[2023-04-11T19:39:12.767Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  on a.
[2023-04-11T19:39:19.487Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-04-11T19:39:21.190Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack joe
[2023-04-11T19:39:24.282Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: If I'd credential in the issue or service and then the older service go let's see where's Q go ahead Joe.
[2023-04-11T19:39:57.935Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I think there's there's an easy answer to that no here and that I think delete and revoke semantics are profoundly different no matter where you're doing them delete to me is about removing the digital object from wherever they're just being stored and whoever controls that storage should be able to delete it right so if it's the holder they can delete it if it's an issue or service and the running out of data they could delete it without revoking it.
[2023-04-11T19:39:58.436Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  it like the the semantics I don't know of any.
[2023-04-11T19:40:03.130Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Where we know that the semantics are guaranteed to always be aligned.
[2023-04-11T19:40:06.639Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Did you allow them to be separate.
[2023-04-11T19:40:19.471Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay go ahead base.
[2023-04-11T19:40:47.377Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I was going to recommend something similar here where I don't know how much we have to try and force interoperability or be really prescriptive I think we can allow implementations to just perform the delete and we could also allow implementations to throw an error if they want to say you need to revoke this or you know there's a status list associated with this and if you and it's an error to.
[2023-04-11T19:40:47.742Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  I'll eat it in till.
[2023-04-11T19:40:50.841Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: You something else.
[2023-04-11T19:40:59.469Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I don't know what that something else would would necessarily be other than changing the status on the credential before you delete it.
[2023-04-11T19:41:14.597Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I'm not sure how much we need to try really hard to get an interoperability here because it's not that clear to me how people would want these systems to perform.
[2023-04-11T19:41:26.820Z]	<Phil_T3>	present+
[2023-04-11T19:41:36.153Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah that mean there's just a point of clarification I guess we don't currently have a requirement I believe for anyone to store issued VCS that correct.
[2023-04-11T19:41:54.451Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: That's correct but if you're going to be using some kind of status list there's a presumption that there's some mechanism you're keeping around some kind of information around those VCS to enable the status to be changed.
[2023-04-11T19:42:07.650Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Sure but they may not have a.
[2023-04-11T19:42:20.973Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah if they don't have a status then it could easily be implemented and you know I their implementations in the wild that exist now that don't store the credentials at all if there's no status list.
[2023-04-11T19:42:28.869Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Right well my point is on the server if they don't store it delete said no up but revoke is not necessarily.
[2023-04-11T19:42:42.265Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Right but that's the case we're so if they're not tracking status then revoke is also a no op or it's an error.
[2023-04-11T19:42:46.911Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Correct but if they are tracking status but they're not storing it they may still be able to revoke it.
[2023-04-11T19:43:01.579Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: That's true but that means they're storing some kind of information around the credential and and so I guess the question becomes when you delete a credential or you deleting the ability to modify its status as well.
[2023-04-11T19:43:20.402Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Right which is a question I guess what is which maybe we've already said right what's the scope of delete are you talking about an issued VC that's a data object that is now going to be removed from Storage are you talking about removing a bunch of metadata around it that is used to manage that particular object.
[2023-04-11T19:43:35.773Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah and I would really think it would be the latter otherwise you would have no way to remove that information we would have no API that does that and so there might be some linkage between status and storage here.
[2023-04-11T19:43:42.620Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Even even though the semantics are very different there's there might still be some linkage here.
[2023-04-11T19:43:48.068Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right so based on that.
[2023-04-11T19:43:59.488Z]	<Alan_Karp>	q+
[2023-04-11T19:44:13.133Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I mean it sounds like we don't really want to say anything specific here we meeting like we don't know if we really need to have interop at this layer there are things people should consider and maybe we should document those in security considerations or privacy considerations section Alan you're on the queue.
[2023-04-11T19:44:35.124Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: Yeah if the if you revoke you have to have some place where you remember that it's revoked doesn't have to be you there has to be some sort of crl so people can check to see if it's been revoked all you need is CID or hash of the thing not have to store the actual certificate but I think you need that somewhere.
[2023-04-11T19:44:43.318Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack alan
[2023-04-11T19:45:12.161Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah other advice we might want to give damp Le manners is in this is also just this is for users of the system including expiration dates on VCS make it easier for you to know that you can safely delete them from storage at least you know on the issue or service you would not need to necessarily once the VC is expired you could your software could probably take the approach that.
[2023-04-11T19:45:12.469Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  that it can be safely deleted and removed from different.
[2023-04-11T19:45:46.491Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So let me try and formulate this into like something actionable here so I think what we're saying is we don't want to give like normative guidance what we may want to do is provide some implementation guidance of what implementer should think of when they're doing deletion and revocation and there's some things up here that I missed that I want to make sure so I'd like to create a list of things that should go in the pr.
[2023-04-11T19:45:46.885Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  give me one.
[2023-04-11T19:46:01.270Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: For I go back to the cue The Next Step here is to provide a PR that okay okay.
[2023-04-11T19:46:02.023Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Hold on I'm not I'm not sure that's the next step Manning the.
[2023-04-11T19:46:13.888Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: When you start when you start talking it auto removed you know.
[2023-04-11T19:46:28.453Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Which is weird why did I go off to Q I didn't do that anyway doesn't matter yeah it's too smart by half okay what how Allen walks through the question that made me think what's more interesting to me is what is the semantics of deleting a revoked credential.
[2023-04-11T19:47:00.365Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So one of the Notions I think it was how Dave phrased that we're talking about the metadata as well well can I purge can I purchase this thing can I get it totally out of my system and so but if I revoked it as Alan put it someone has to remember that it's revoked and so I think this is about there's different semantics probably for delete for revoke and maybe a purge or some other thing and I think that's the space we need to understand better before we get.
[2023-04-11T19:47:00.830Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  get to implementation.
[2023-04-11T19:47:06.540Z]	<Phil_T3>	Wouldn't the issuer want to maintain retain info about expired credential?  This may be recorded in a log file somewhere but an expiration isn't necessarily no longer useful.
[2023-04-11T19:47:39.471Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I think we also want to be careful with if we were to introduce a new semantics of purge that starts to create an implication on how you go about implementing the system of course looking at it from the other direction if you don't have that Purge then you you still you you're also creating a prescription for how you ought to go about implementing the system so it's it's touchy here especially in the reason.
[2023-04-11T19:48:06.208Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: It's touchy is we don't want to go and make a normative decision around something where we're not sure where we want to see it play out in the market and have people experiment with how this should work and if there is a way that it comes out that is the best way for it to work then we can be normative about it but I think it's too early to do that now.
[2023-04-11T19:48:22.288Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so what concrete thing can we do here say that we considered this and it was too early go ahead Patrick.
[2023-04-11T19:48:38.881Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick: I don't know if drafting is sort of Matrix could help of all these semantics like if the credential has been revoked and you deleted then consider this if they're going to try has not been revoked deleted consider this and so on.
[2023-04-11T19:48:48.014Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We could do that.
[2023-04-11T19:48:55.276Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Mmm well they're at present.
[2023-04-11T19:49:27.984Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It sounds like we need to consider what the the two things Joe mentioned which is you know the delete and well there's really delete and well there's there's there's delete and then there's the status list semantics of revoke and suspend in we may want to do what Patrick said which is just go through every iterate through every possibility if you have X and you know go through the Matrix and and flip all the.
[2023-04-11T19:49:28.455Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  it's and then have create some.
[2023-04-11T19:50:00.649Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Each case in with respect to like what people should be aware of but not yet any kind of normative language say hey we thought about this here's where we got to it's not clear what the best way is right now there may be a best way in the future but we are collecting you know Market input at this point to decide if there's should be some normative guidance we get around this.
[2023-04-11T19:50:01.078Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  this and we can just you know flashing.
[2023-04-11T19:50:01.168Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Add with the.
[2023-04-11T19:50:13.690Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You marker and effectively that can stay open until we get to you know standards track and then get all the way to recommendation so that might what thoughts about that approach.
[2023-04-11T19:50:49.634Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay thumbs up now to remember what I actually said so the next step here is to raise a PR that iterates through all possibilities of delete plus status list Otis has provided.
[2023-04-11T19:51:02.525Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Thoughts on each it's through a matrix of all possibilities.
[2023-04-11T19:51:18.736Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Provide thoughts on each combination but make it clear that it's too early for normative guidance.
[2023-04-11T19:51:49.273Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah we could also suggest to implementers that they might want to implement delete a sort of a soft delete where there will be some effectively garbage collection later when all the references to the credential are gone maybe the credentials expired its status list is expired and and so on and then it can be cleaned up that's something that implementers could potentially do.
[2023-04-11T19:51:52.924Z]	<Phil_T3>	q+
[2023-04-11T19:52:00.387Z]	<Alan_Karp>	q+
[2023-04-11T19:52:00.831Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah I would add or or abandoned like to Talons point you may be able to have a substrate out there that you can't erase from that you could put a permanent relocation on.
[2023-04-11T19:52:22.728Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: The expiration date is critical otherwise you've got an unbounded storage I mean storage is cheap but the only time you can really forget about a revoked can revoke certificate is when it's expired otherwise you've got to keep at least an identifier for it around.
[2023-04-11T19:52:41.352Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay alright so let's just say this is ready for PR for now and we will raise a PR and then check the language in the pr and iterate from there once we get there.
[2023-04-11T19:53:08.777Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_T3: Just want to be clear that expired there's a number of reasons why you might want to keep around an expired credential both the on the issue or side and the and the holder side and I mean expired can be done for can occur for lots of reasons it doesn't necessarily mean you're even thinking about it removing it because the person is going to use that for to a reapplication to.
[2023-04-11T19:53:09.193Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_T3:  to extend it or something like that.
[2023-04-11T19:53:15.538Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_T3: From holders point of view it's expired but it's still something they went through and they want to present to somebody.
[2023-04-11T19:53:17.789Z]	<Alan_Karp>	q+
[2023-04-11T19:53:27.929Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: I'm talking to you I agree completely that you often want to keep these around forever for audit purposes.
[2023-04-11T19:53:35.959Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_T3: Yeah that's a whole other thing I'm assuming that there's a log separate from all of this where that where that sort of thing is being managed so that it hasn't been stated.
[2023-04-11T19:53:41.588Z]	<Alan_Karp>	q-
[2023-04-11T19:53:44.551Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack phil
[2023-04-11T19:53:47.984Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Apologies and been looking at the Q so filled that you and then Ellen I guess okay.
[2023-04-11T19:53:49.316Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_T3: Not we I just gave you what house Alan went before me and I just followed up.
[2023-04-11T19:53:51.091Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-04-11T19:53:56.019Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay jeez it's moving fast Dave and then Ellen.
[2023-04-11T19:54:01.063Z]	<Phil_T3>	q-
[2023-04-11T19:54:04.121Z]	<Alan_Karp>	q-
[2023-04-11T19:54:24.807Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah so I also agree with what Phil just said but to clarify on the garbage collection comment I made I did intend for it to mean that if the delete command had been issued then it would become garbage collectible you can make it so that your system did not issue those commands and you just kept things around you could also have some external auditing system that would keep a permanent record of everything expired that goes into like cold storage so there's there's a number of different.
[2023-04-11T19:54:25.155Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  approaches for.
[2023-04-11T19:54:30.683Z]	<Phil_T3>	Understood - just want that guidance to be clear  to people implementing
[2023-04-11T19:54:43.266Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: This use case but the main point here is without calling delete I would not recommend that an implementation Auto expire things but of course you know maybe your implementation has a feature where you could set that up the configuration or something.
[2023-04-11T19:54:53.610Z]	<Transcriber>	Alan_Karp: I took my sorry I jumped the queue so I took myself off.
[2023-04-11T19:54:59.675Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Got it okay all right so thank you we've got a ready for pull request here.
[2023-04-11T19:55:18.518Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And so basically what we're doing is we're providing thoughts to implementers on various things they should consider but no normative gotten set this point and we're going to make it clear that we're looking for input on what should happen in this case.
[2023-04-11T19:55:49.392Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay and that's it we are at time thank you everyone for the productive discussion we got through three issues for items today next week will be a demo by Patrick and then we'll have a set of other issues we can process if we have time also John will look for your email out on the ccg mailing list to join.
[2023-04-11T19:56:02.684Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: In the open Wallet Foundation call okay that's it thanks everyone I have a great rest of the week will chat with everyone next week take care bye.

