Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-04-11/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-04-11/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2023-04-11

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Apr&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Stuart Freeman, Harrison Tang, Mike Prorock, Bob Wyman, Paul 
  Murdock, Gregory Natran, Jeff O - HumanOS, Oliver Terbu, Greg 
  Bernstein, David Chadwick, Adrian Gropper, James Chartrand, Bryan 
  Luisana, Tom S, Erica Connell, Kerri Lemoie, Wendy Seltzer, 
  TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Steve 
  Magennis, Andrew Whitehead, Phil L (P1), BrentZ, Kaliya Young, 
  Orie Steele, John Kuo, Will, Dmitri Zagidulin, Joe Andrieu, Clare 
  Nelson, Paul Dietrich GS1, Geun-Hyung, Marty Reed, Colin 
  Reynolds, Ed Design Lab, Nate Otto, Chandi Cumaranatunge, David 
  I. Lehn

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mike Prorock: 
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2023Apr/0019.html
Mike Prorock:  All right I'll hello and welcome to the April 11th 
  w3c credentials community group meeting we are going to be 
  talking about a fun topic today which is holder binding a lot of 
  good use and luckily we have Oliver here to lead the conversation 
  and to tell us what they've been finding and experiences and 
  research in the area as well as practical applications just a 
  quick note that this meeting and all done.
Mike Prorock: https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/
Mike Prorock:   P3c meetings are conducted under the code of 
  ethics.
Mike Prorock: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
Mike Prorock:  Rational conduct so basically good people it's a 
  good thing so if you need to look at details you can go through 
  and click on the link I pasted in the chat a quick IP note which 
  is this meeting is totally open to the public but if you do want 
  to go through and contribute to any w3c work items and 
  specifically ccg work items you must be a member of the ccg 
  pasted a link to that to join.
Mike Prorock: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
Mike Prorock:  You do need a W3 ID account but you do not need to 
  be an actual full w3c member to contribute which is quite helpful 
  quick note that all of these meetings and the recordings are 
  posted to our meetings link I'll put that in the chat as well 
  just in case anyone needs it and the just a note around 
  moderation I am going to when we do get into kicking off the 
  meeting.
<mprorock> In IRC type “q+” to add yourself to the queue, with an 
  optional
Mike Prorock:  Letting Oliver at least get the whole intro in and 
  monitoring Q in the process when we get to a good point will all 
  start opening queue up for questions and processing through that 
  to put yourself on the Queue you can hit the raise hand button 
  and jitsi I'm also putting some instructions here around the 
  letter q and the plus sign that will put you on the queue as well 
  quick pause here for any intros Andre intros is anyone.
Mike Prorock:   One new to this call is this error your first 
  time or second time here in.
Mike Prorock:  Introduce yourself to the group or if you have 
  recently changed roles and would like to introduce yourself to 
  the group in that new context and I'll pause and just listen for 
  anyone to speak up if they're brand new here.
Mike Prorock:  All right I'm going to take that as we are all 
  veterans the quick pause here for any announcements and reminders 
  Brent I'm going to put you on the spot because I think there are 
  two VC working group items that are coming in from the ccg that 
  we're getting ready to put final Community draft status on I 
  believe that is the schema work.
Mike Prorock:   And then maybe.
Mike Prorock:  One of the.
<kaliya_identitywoman> Ok I called in on the app. No sound. Just 
  came in via just the web no sound - this isn’t good guys
Mike Prorock:  Do sweets as well is that correct or did I miss 
  any of those.
BrentZ: No that is correct there's the Json schemas for VC's work 
  and the BBS data Integrity signature sweet I believe that the 
  steps have been taken that are necessary like PRS have been 
  raised against those items to change the status so now it's I 
  believe it's ready the I believe they're ready for the ccg to 
  make that determination to publish.
Mike Prorock:  I believe that is the case as well and I double 
  checked this morning it looked like all PRS are in place and so 
  if you have an objection for some reason feel free to send that 
  out to the list or open it to one of the repos and question but 
  these are items that have been pretty stable for a while now I 
  will dig the links up because I Paula apologies for not having 
  them handy here but we will put those out on the list we're.
Mike Prorock:   To give it.
Mike Prorock:  I think those announcements actually all went out 
  to the list last week that those were rolling through but I do 
  but just make sure if there's an issue that it is raised before 
  we actually put final status on that it would be nice to 
  transition those into the VC working group ideally by the end of 
  this week since it's been more than seven days since that posting 
  went out to the public group so that's our Target here so if if 
  for some reason you missed making a comment on that you can go 
  check on the list and I'll.
Mike Prorock:   I'll post those.
Mike Prorock:  I said and we can get those in.
Mike Prorock:  Any other announcements from the community here 
  they're relevant.
Mike Prorock:  Awesome so with that I am going to hand it over to 
  Oliver and let him take it away on the topic of holder bindings.
<phil_l_(p1)> Schema URL https://github.com/w3c/vc-json-schema
Mike Prorock:  We can and I am loving the strikethrough.
<mprorock> thanks phil!
<phil_l_(p1)> Phillip_Long present+
<phil_l_(p1)> The VCWG has agreed to adopt vc-di-bbs, this email 
  is to notify the W3C CCG of our intention to transfer the 
  repository below and continue the work on vc-di-bbs (previously 
  ldp-bbs).
<bobwyman> Are we seeing again that the software doesn't 
  recognize speech by non-native speakers of English?
<mprorock> we are definitely seeing that
<mprorock> @manu...
<kerri_lemoie> Could we get a link to the slides? Thanks!
<mprorock> yep - we are going to get slides out on the list, and 
  once we get to a pause will get the link in the chat
<harrison_tang> I can ask Oliver to share it after the meeting
<phil_l_(p1)> RWOT11 holder binding paper: 
  https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rwot11-the-hague/blob/master/final-documents/identifier-binding.md
<mprorock> Orie loves registries
<orie> registries are the new directories
<kaliya_identitywoman> where are the slides?
<mprorock> about to be in chat and on list
Oliver Terbu: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-uPVyl3S-vPvy4HqL6BcjN0xTu9AvqxFfwowqwzcXpo/
Mike Prorock:  Awesome thank you Oliver and do you mind real 
  quick just taking the share link from this presentation and 
  dropping it in the chat and then obviously we'll get it out to 
  the list as well awesome cool so I guess at this point we're 
  going to open it up for questions here just going to watch the Q 
  you know one note that I thought was interesting that helped me a 
  lot especially at the face-to-face VC.
Mike Prorock:   A working group meeting.
Mike Prorock:  Out of my way.
Mike Prorock:  They're the last one was that kind of what the 
  relationship to evidence is right in terms of thinking about 
  evidence as the actions performed by an issue or you know most 
  often to make sure that credential they're issuing is backed by 
  additional information right if required and that confirmation 
  method is really what is handed over as part of potentially as 
  part of a presentation right for a recipient to be able to 
  perform.
Mike Prorock:   I'm right what steps.
<david_chadwick> It appears we need to request access to these 
  slides
Mike Prorock:  Can you perform to do that this credential does 
  indeed belong to so-and-so etcetera and I'm noticing some 
  permissions issues on the slide deck there Oliver just as a heads 
  up but I don't know if you have any comments on that or thoughts 
  on that Oliver.
Mike Prorock:  Excellent thank you.
Mike Prorock:  All right anyone in the audience here have any 
  questions for Oliver I know he's been deep diving on this 
  probably as much as anyone except for the person who just queued 
  up so David taken away.
<kerri_lemoie> Would there be a directory of confirmation 
  methods?
<kaliya_identitywoman> I like the dog vaccination use-case
<joe_andrieu> @Kerri_Lemoie there is a directory of related work, 
  which is where I expect folks to list things like verification 
  methods
<mprorock> this is helpful for approaches around proof of 
  posession of key material 
  https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7800.html
Joe Andrieu: https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/
Mike Prorock: +1 Joe
<kerri_lemoie> Thanks @Joe - makes sense
Mike Prorock:  Any other questions in here.
Mike Prorock:  Question from the implementation side I know 
  obviously you know Spruce is got some good work going on this 
  front Oliver but for the other implementers on the call anyone 
  else have implementations in this area and identifying any 
  issues.
<orie> checkout how cnf is used for holder binding in sd-jwt
Mike Prorock:  I'm going to put Oreo on the spot if I don't see a 
  volunteer.
Mike Prorock:  I'm totally putting Oreo on the spot now.
Orie Steele:  What what is the question.
Mike Prorock:  From an implementation side I mean have you guys 
  gone down anything around like confirmation method holder binding 
  side and are you seeing any pros cons frustrations yet or.
Orie Steele:  Yeah the only thing that I've implemented 
  concretely related to this is how confirmation method is used in 
  holder binding for a Visa for SD J WT s so in the case where the 
  payload is a verifiable credential in json-ld format and you want 
  to reveal only one you know set of one part of the claims and 
  that credential but you also want to make sure.
Orie Steele:   Sure that it's presented.
Orie Steele:  He that signed by the original issuer f d dot has a 
  mechanism for doing that it's kind of clever and just Builds on 
  foreign oil JWT so it's really easy to implement yeah that's the 
  only implementation of this that I've seen I mean I know em doc 
  has a version of this kind of thing but it's not in you know a 
  w3c sort of format.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah oh well yeah yeah Oliver if you want to 
  respond let's go first and then we'll get Harrison it.
<mprorock> {
<mprorock> from 7800
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/oauth-wg/oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt/blob/7aa6f926bfc684eae530ebf1210d74b636ae0a06/sd_jwt/operations.py#L272
Mike Prorock:  Awesome yeah and I'm most familiar obviously for 
  more of the CNF side of things with you know Johnson JW k s 
  etcetera Harrison.
Harrison_Tang: Yes can someone just go a little bit deeper into 
  how like and Doc and DL I got you comments hold it binding or 
  confirmation methods I mean earlier it's mentioned that MDOC or 
  mdl by Implement something similar to the confirmation methods 
  but can we go into a little bit details.
<orie> Just buy the ISO spec to find out more!
<kaliya_identitywoman> here is my work on this with Lucy - 
  https://medium.com/@identitywoman-in-business/vc-mdl-project-stakeholder-interviews-6d175da09598
<kaliya_identitywoman> this is how we think they can meet in the 
  middle - 
  https://medium.com/@identitywoman-in-business/where-can-the-w3c-vcs-meet-the-iso-18013-5-mdl-b2d450bb19f8
<mprorock> /me is closing queue
Mike Prorock:  Awesome well with that I'm going to be respectful 
  of time I know a lot of folks have been rolling up on the meeting 
  we're making best effort to get this meeting to end between 1050 
  or well my time 10 50 and 55 so folks aren't stacked right back 
  with that I really just thank you for the time Oliver and 
  obviously David as well I know you get.
Mike Prorock:  It's a complex enough topic that it does require 
  some thought to do right and really I think now we're in search 
  of norment which around this stuff so.
<orie> now go review the holder binding PR: 
  https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1054
Mike Prorock:  Less so with that I'm going to let Harrison stop 
  recording and thank you again all please have a wonderful week.
<phil_l_(p1)> :clap:
<econnell> Thanks, Oliver!
Harrison_Tang: Thanks Oliver thank you.
Mike Prorock:  And Harris has to be the last one out again.
<kerri_lemoie> Thanks!
