Thanks to russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-06-06-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-06-06-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-06-06

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jun&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Russell Hofvendahl, Nis Jespersen , Mahmoud Alkhraishi, TallTed 
  // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Benjamin Collins, 
  Orie Steele, Chris Abernethy, Ted Thibodeau

russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/794
Nis Jespersen :  Greetings, welcome to trace call, don't forget 
  to sign contributor agreement
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/794#discussion_r1218467320
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Confused. Why monetary? Different PR?
Orie Steele:  Don't know why there, but that's OpenAPI yaml, auto 
  built from folders
Nis Jespersen :  Bit of delay before gets to openapi, why it got 
  in here
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  K, CI error but didn't break
Orie Steele:  Not CI, artifact of how we construct CI from folder 
  of docs regularly merged
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Happy to merge
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/795
Nis Jespersen :  Next, also Orie, 795
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/798
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/795/files
Orie Steele:  Just removes name, description fields, updates text
Orie Steele:  Nis, if yours does it for everything, let's merge 
  yours before mine
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/798
Nis Jespersen :  Might want to do 798 first
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Anyone on mesur side using name descr?
Russell Hofvendahl:  Unsure, would need to look into
Orie Steele:  Wouldn't impact gs1
Chris Abernethy:  Deferring to Russell
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Happy to merge after if this works for mesur
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/796
Nis Jespersen :  So close 795
Orie Steele:  To be clear, issuerName
Nis Jespersen :  Objections?
Orie Steele:  Same comment, if you care about issuerName prop 
  being allowed, may want to engage with VC group, have added 
  name/descr to cred, not to issuer
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/797
<orie> issuer name could go here: 
  https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/blob/main/contexts/credentials/v2#L44
Nis Jespersen :  K, still want to merge, merging
Orie Steele:  In general bundle api, so can download all schemas, 
  this PR attempts to do something regarding workflows?
Chris Abernethy:  Seems like new files containing paths just 
  moved, hiding workflows
Orie Steele:  Agree, helpful refactoring would love to merge if 
  doesn't break, but if breaks then fire mode
Chris Abernethy:  Yeah, separate into two PRs
Benjamin Collins:  Sync with adam before merging
Orie Steele:  Other side, any PRs on top of, drift? Just 
  indexing?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/799
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/800
Nis Jespersen :  I'll check out after meeting, engage with Adam
Benjamin Collins:  Getting in nis/I as authors before we freeze 
  everything
Orie Steele:  Removed Brian Muntz
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  This PR adds to authors, not Editors, 
  correct
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/553
Nis Jespersen :  Great, merging, please keep coming so all 
  represented
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I can. interop, 553, Orie?
Orie Steele:  Yes, on last call when we did issue processing 
  assigned me several issues related to selective disclosure, this 
  PR closes those issues
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/555
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Bunch of approvals no objections, merging
Orie Steele:  Several scenarios, trying to get ready for vc v2, 
  getting stuck on rev list 2020 holds us back. Also VC JSON schema 
  work, also want to get alignment
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Orie, articulate what you said in comment?
Orie Steele:  Have, merge PR work on tests for what want in v2, 
  get off tests for thing not mentioned in spec anymore
Orie Steele:  Already have issue, so make search for and add
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/556
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/556
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/557
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Update sections for normative vs 
  non-normative language, parts say informative some normative
<orie> Lots of suggestions need to be applied
Nis Jespersen :  Address some changes discussed last time, from 
  Mike last time, so re-wrote workflow section
<russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io)> Mahmou: Also Orie
Orie Steele:  Avoid statements inside advisement blocks
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/558
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes. Any objections?
Benjamin Collins:  Also conflicts
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Ted?
Ted Thibodeau:  Adding myself to block
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
<orie> sry i need to drop
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/681
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That's all PRs today
Nis Jespersen :  Yes
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/461
Nis Jespersen : +1 On too generic
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Moving on
Nis Jespersen :  Yeah
Nis Jespersen : +1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Instinct, we do not need this. Everyone 
  else?
Benjamin Collins:  Pending close probably
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/548
<chris_abernethy> Apologies - I need to drop as well.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Fair.
<chris_abernethy> I'm happy to publish today, please slack if 
  needed.
Benjamin Collins:  Thoughts on this
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Agree, but important thing issue 385 at top. 
  I believe only one is events linking to products.
Benjamin Collins:  Example at top, seems separate from 
  commisionevent with hash
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  If only using hashlink for events, if 
  following different model then makes this convo moot
Benjamin Collins:  Close in favor of keeping 385 open?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Might be best we can do, reality that cant 
  add semantics to every edge
Benjamin Collins:  Reality this is expected hashes at this point 
  in time, don't see any way around that
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Don't see workaround
Benjamin Collins:  Nis?
Nis Jespersen :  If you don't have better term, invented under 
  trace, more recently switched to @vocab
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/blob/main/docs/openapi/components/schemas/common/CommissionEvent.yml#L56
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thing, orie's comments on thread say, we 
  should upadate this line so doesn't point to hashlink, but some 
  semantic meaning like product we have. Issue is, always receive 
  hashlink, not product
Benjamin Collins:  But context, @id points to context
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Point is that every term within that, rn 
  every array of type string, should be array of type url
Nis Jespersen :  Still feels like misusing @id here. Repeating 
  what you said, it's primitive type it's not semantic type
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  K, look at line 47, is that misusing type id
<nis> 1+
Nis Jespersen :  Great yes
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Need a second to write comment
Nis Jespersen :  Yes, only thing is trace product, should not be 
  necessary for us to invent
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Already have I think
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/blob/main/docs/openapi/components/schemas/common/Product.yml 
  @nis
Benjamin Collins:  Now explicitly says what expects to be there
<russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io)> Mahmou: Great. Only question is 
  idk fi url, #url works?
Benjamin Collins:  Think formatUrl can have hashtag at end
Nis Jespersen :  I believe we mostly use URI, would use that
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Assigning to me
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/561
Benjamin Collins:  Even if spent time on, at least if closed out 
  then success
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/804
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/385
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  561, Big one, EPCIS modelling of events. All 
  the event schemas we have,
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  K, call it a day
