[2020-10-06T15:59:59.053Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:00:12.548Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:00:18.166Z]	<Mike_Prorock_-_mesur.io>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:01:01.345Z]	<Kim>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:01:50.907Z]	<Marc_Romero>	Hi guys! Happy to know some more about DECO.
[2020-10-06T16:02:04.360Z]	<burn>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:03:12.884Z]	<bengo>	When I call the us phone number on here, it hangs up on me after I dial the extension. https://w3c-ccg.github.io/
[2020-10-06T16:03:26.526Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:03:27.835Z]	<robbie.jones@forgerock.com>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:03:44.362Z]	<robbie.jones@forgerock.com>	robbie.jones@forgerock:present+
[2020-10-06T16:03:49.011Z]	<bengo>	thx
[2020-10-06T16:03:53.690Z]	<Akin_Sawyerr>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:04:52.602Z]	<justatest>	Is it just a telco?
[2020-10-06T16:05:00.368Z]	<changwu>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:05:03.092Z]	<bengo>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:05:44.651Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:05:44.993Z]	<jonathan_holt>	scribe+ jonathan_holt
[2020-10-06T16:05:50.755Z]	<jonathan_holt>	present+ jonathan_holt
[2020-10-06T16:06:15.391Z]	<Akin_Sawyerr>	Sure
[2020-10-06T16:06:17.928Z]	<jonathan_holt>	topic: introductions
[2020-10-06T16:06:19.913Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Dee
[2020-10-06T16:06:50.882Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Dee:  I am in the payments and blockchain industry. glad to be here.
[2020-10-06T16:07:43.965Z]	<jonathan_holt>	?akin:  involved in DCreds blockchain, contributor to chain link.  & Deco
[2020-10-06T16:07:47.137Z]	<dfgbnm>	whats going on here?
[2020-10-06T16:07:52.840Z]	<jonathan_holt>	topic: reintroductions
[2020-10-06T16:08:01.495Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:08:10.372Z]	<bengo>	bengo: Hey, long time listener first time caller. Prev w3c socialwg/activitypub, more recently at https://sdk.dfinity.org working on authentication.
[2020-10-06T16:08:19.659Z]	<jonathan_holt>	marty:  food track and trace.  Interested in decision science.
[2020-10-06T16:08:43.235Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:08:59.987Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:09:10.505Z]	<dfgbnm>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:09:18.046Z]	<jonathan_holt>	?brian:  from ?  and interested in ?  sorry, missed the details.  Please add.
[2020-10-06T16:09:19.828Z]	<Kim>	q+ to mention TPAC
[2020-10-06T16:09:25.351Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Topic: announcement
[2020-10-06T16:09:46.595Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Kim
[2020-10-06T16:09:54.383Z]	<jonathan_holt>	wayne:  IIW coming soon in a few weeks.  Excellent source of info for ID.
[2020-10-06T16:09:59.361Z]	<identitywoman>	Hi - I help run IIW and we are committed to accessibility if you need help to be able attend please reach out.
[2020-10-06T16:10:16.486Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:10:41.042Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Kim:  TPAC meeting is next week.  Overview of what we have done and highlights of accomplishments and what we are up to.  encourage you to join.
[2020-10-06T16:11:11.718Z]	<jonathan_holt>	wayne:  Kaylia will help if interested in IIW.
[2020-10-06T16:11:17.161Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	> https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-10-06T16:11:42.303Z]	<jonathan_holt>	wayne:  github filter link.  first issue is regarding Jitsi
[2020-10-06T16:11:44.776Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-10-06T16:11:51.947Z]	<Brian>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:11:57.336Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-10-06T16:12:00.902Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2020-10-06T16:12:09.741Z]	<dfgbnm>	q+
[2020-10-06T16:12:09.760Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kim:  chairs have been discussing problems
[2020-10-06T16:12:13.801Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack manu
[2020-10-06T16:12:43.692Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu:  from a tech perspective with Jitsi. we believe we hit stability last week by giving more CPU power.
[2020-10-06T16:13:16.273Z]	<jeevanjot>	no sound
[2020-10-06T16:13:26.876Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... the machine is keeping up.  my hope is we hold 4 meetings and go into the next leg and Jitsi become self-aware and become our AI overlord
[2020-10-06T16:14:24.052Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... we could allow other sub-groups to use it,  DID education, LD-security, DIF,  and span out with auto-scribe, scribe selection.  thank you everyone for sticking with it. next, what are the next priorities.
[2020-10-06T16:14:26.495Z]	<Kim>	q+
[2020-10-06T16:14:29.676Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2020-10-06T16:14:34.518Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack heathervescent
[2020-10-06T16:14:38.017Z]	<heathervescent>	https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/JXHKBJ7
[2020-10-06T16:15:43.288Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2020-10-06T16:15:51.263Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack dfgbnm
[2020-10-06T16:15:55.897Z]	<jonathan_holt>	heathervescent:  shout out to the survey which has the option to get feedback regarding Jitsi, as well as participants and process moving forward.  Regarding interrupt with the minutes as we are re-tooling.  Last week we got good minutes.  if you want updates for the last month, reach out the the chairs.
[2020-10-06T16:15:59.971Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Kim
[2020-10-06T16:16:53.248Z]	<heathervescent>	Here's the survey: https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/JXHKBJ7 Please take it!
[2020-10-06T16:18:04.188Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Kim:  feedback from what the chairs discussed last week.  we were supposed to migrate the publishing of minutes.  concern is that there are some lingering issues.  given we aren't auto-publishing the minutes.  we have given ourself a deadline to fix.  there was some lack of clarity who would step up and what the status is.  the risk is at the end of the month we might need options to reach parity.  Chairs will discuss Thursday and will be
[2020-10-06T16:18:04.226Z]	<jonathan_holt>	 reaching out for help.
[2020-10-06T16:18:28.873Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2020-10-06T16:18:30.395Z]	<jonathan_holt>	wayne:  if you are interested in updating some scripts please reach out.
[2020-10-06T16:18:33.073Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-10-06T16:18:39.330Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack manu
[2020-10-06T16:19:06.962Z]	<jonathan_holt>	manu: I'm a bit dismayed to hear that.  we publish the logs.  I'll take a look and try to fix.
[2020-10-06T16:19:31.261Z]	<jonathan_holt>	wayne: i'm interested in looking at the scripts and attempt to fix as well.
[2020-10-06T16:19:57.693Z]	<jonathan_holt>	wayne: regarding proposed work item.
[2020-10-06T16:20:12.308Z]	<Sergey_Nazarov>	Fan Zhang already done?
[2020-10-06T16:20:43.734Z]	<jonathan_holt>	orie:  I've introduced this item before. regarding vocubulary associated with supply chain proof of origin credential.  i.e.  steel, food, timber, etc.
[2020-10-06T16:20:44.736Z]	<heathervescent>	No, Fan has not started.
[2020-10-06T16:20:56.546Z]	<Sergey_Nazarov>	when Fan will talk?
[2020-10-06T16:20:59.582Z]	<heathervescent>	We are doing regular meeting business, almost done with it.
[2020-10-06T16:21:16.197Z]	<heathervescent>	When we are done with this item.
[2020-10-06T16:21:22.935Z]	<Sergey_Nazarov>	ok thanks
[2020-10-06T16:21:26.916Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... this vocabulary supports chemistry ontologies,  testing of traded goods as the move across borders.  it attempt to use common terms across use-cases.
[2020-10-06T16:21:30.042Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2020-10-06T16:22:05.303Z]	<jonathan_holt>	wayne: my comments as chair.  we require at least 2 persons to contribute.
[2020-10-06T16:22:15.289Z]	<jonathan_holt>	orie: is it OK for me to more to CCG repo?
[2020-10-06T16:22:19.921Z]	<manu>	+1 to move repository to CCG repository.
[2020-10-06T16:22:23.843Z]	<Mike_Prorock_-_mesur.io>	+1
[2020-10-06T16:22:24.886Z]	<jonathan_holt>	s/more/move
[2020-10-06T16:22:45.258Z]	<jonathan_holt>	wayne: heather, kim your thoughts?
[2020-10-06T16:23:05.003Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kim: we need a bit more administrative bits, and chairs can update.
[2020-10-06T16:23:19.791Z]	<tayken>	present+
[2020-10-06T16:23:20.116Z]	<jonathan_holt>	orie:  it is possible that I already updated the boilerplate stuff.
[2020-10-06T16:23:36.575Z]	<jonathan_holt>	kim: i'll check it out.
[2020-10-06T16:23:54.887Z]	<jonathan_holt>	heathervescent: let's look as chairs and circle back.
[2020-10-06T16:23:56.521Z]	<Kim>	this is the LICENSE: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-ed-models/blob/main/LICENSE.md
[2020-10-06T16:23:58.023Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2020-10-06T16:24:09.263Z]	<jonathan_holt>	wayne: Topic main event.
[2020-10-06T16:25:21.638Z]	<Phil>	No
[2020-10-06T16:25:27.864Z]	<jonathan_holt>	wayne: fanz is an author of Deco and allows a user to prove data via TLS. such as bank account with Zkp and maintaining privacy.
[2020-10-06T16:25:30.851Z]	<by_caballero>	same
[2020-10-06T16:25:43.600Z]	<by_caballero>	nah
[2020-10-06T16:25:44.257Z]	<Phil>	No
[2020-10-06T16:25:45.674Z]	<by_caballero>	still nah
[2020-10-06T16:27:12.366Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	Apologies, my system is failing to stay connected to Jitsi. Will try another browser.
[2020-10-06T16:29:01.093Z]	<Marc_Romero>	no
[2020-10-06T16:29:03.933Z]	<Mike_Prorock_-_mesur.io>	grey
[2020-10-06T16:29:06.722Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	no
[2020-10-06T16:29:13.748Z]	<Phil>	Nothing is being displayed.
[2020-10-06T16:29:27.195Z]	<by_caballero>	you're pointing a mirror at a mirror :D
[2020-10-06T16:29:29.866Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	now we can, showing a jitsi page
[2020-10-06T16:29:32.635Z]	<by_caballero>	yay!
[2020-10-06T16:29:36.903Z]	<Marc_Romero>	now it works
[2020-10-06T16:30:11.764Z]	<Taylor_Kendal>	Woohoo!
[2020-10-06T16:30:16.232Z]	<jonathan_holt>	fanz:  let get started. I am a security researcher. previously at Cornell.
[2020-10-06T16:30:32.800Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... how to change any TLS web page into a verifiable claim.
[2020-10-06T16:30:43.406Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... why do we care?  The current one sucks.
[2020-10-06T16:31:12.561Z]	<Sergey_Nazarov>	Great Fan
[2020-10-06T16:31:20.270Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... many of use have experience with cryptocurrency.  the first thing you do is the know your customer experience with presenting your face to web-cam.
[2020-10-06T16:31:50.225Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... demos how to present yourself with ID.
[2020-10-06T16:32:08.147Z]	<Sergey_Nazarov>	Are you Fan Zhang or Ari Juels? You speak like Ari!
[2020-10-06T16:32:24.056Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... the point of ID verification is a burdening process.  Verification system is not keeping up with our digital life.
[2020-10-06T16:33:04.310Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... this is also prone to potential fraud.  Decentralized ID is promising solution with users controlling their identity.
[2020-10-06T16:33:44.040Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... In DID systems, each individual has public/private keys and credential bond to public key ID.
[2020-10-06T16:34:17.599Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... Alice can use private key to prove ownership of identity including with the use of Zero knowledge proofs.
[2020-10-06T16:34:50.031Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... DID has many benefits, reduce fraud,  good for enterprise reducing risk of storing PII.
[2020-10-06T16:35:03.249Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... how do we get there?
[2020-10-06T16:35:41.319Z]	<jonathan_holt>	.. many groups including here are bringing this to reality.  however, after reviewing several DID standards some details got swept under the rug.
[2020-10-06T16:36:03.343Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... this talk i'm going to focus on the boot-strap problem.
[2020-10-06T16:36:31.922Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... Using DMV as a case,
[2020-10-06T16:37:06.710Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... many additional problems,  unlikely that issuers will join this ecosystem.
[2020-10-06T16:37:29.920Z]	<jonathan_holt>	... conversely, the eco-system will not mature unless issuers join.  Classic chicken and egg.
[2020-10-06T16:37:38.477Z]	<jonathan_holt>	JoeAndrieu: can you take over?
[2020-10-06T16:37:46.918Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	I can
[2020-10-06T16:37:50.639Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	scribe+
[2020-10-06T16:38:43.706Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	fanz: the challenge is how to we prove over the Internet that the web page contains a legitimate proof that Alice is over 18
[2020-10-06T16:38:57.484Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... option 1: alice could send a screen shot
[2020-10-06T16:39:12.955Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... but these are easily tampered with, even though widely used in practice
[2020-10-06T16:39:31.195Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... another option is that Alice could send her password and the recipient can check themselve
[2020-10-06T16:39:43.857Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... This only works if the password is one-time use to just read the information intended.
[2020-10-06T16:39:47.956Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... that's almost never the case
[2020-10-06T16:40:08.565Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... Option 3: use TLS
[2020-10-06T16:40:46.795Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... when visiting TLS secured sites, browsers and websites automatically secure the interaction
[2020-10-06T16:40:58.253Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... unfortunately TLS doesn't give us the cryptographic property we need
[2020-10-06T16:41:05.350Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... the problem is that TLS doesn't sign the data
[2020-10-06T16:41:25.816Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... the certificate is only used to bootstrap the channel
[2020-10-06T16:41:44.790Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... This means that for bob the "chat log" is no better than a screenshot
[2020-10-06T16:42:00.651Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... it's trivial for Alice to change the log she saved
[2020-10-06T16:42:12.055Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... Solution 1: change servers to be DID friendly
[2020-10-06T16:42:37.122Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... Servers already have certificates (for TLS), they can sign if they choose to, using that
[2020-10-06T16:42:58.880Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... drawback: this requires a lot of changes in infrastructure
[2020-10-06T16:43:18.895Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... Back to square one
[2020-10-06T16:43:41.811Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... Solution 2: work with existing servers: prove statements about TLS data without any modifications to the server
[2020-10-06T16:43:45.632Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... That's our goal
[2020-10-06T16:44:05.207Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... (which does seem to conflict with earlier statement of limits of TLS)
[2020-10-06T16:44:14.121Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... this is the magic of Deco
[2020-10-06T16:44:31.517Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... The session key established with the server is split between the prover and the verifier
[2020-10-06T16:44:50.533Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... The crux is that the prover does not have the full key and can't forge data
[2020-10-06T16:45:14.245Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... This is done with a 3-party handshake that shares the appropriate secrets between parties
[2020-10-06T16:45:27.436Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... This is the main idea of Deco
[2020-10-06T16:45:44.118Z]	<Moses>	Can someone repost the URL for the slides? Thanks!
[2020-10-06T16:45:46.403Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q+ how is this different than Chrome's Signed HTTP exchange SGX - https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2018/11/signed-exchanges
[2020-10-06T16:46:04.749Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	dmitriz: how does splitting the key help?
[2020-10-06T16:46:09.490Z]	<agropper>	q+ to ask about notaries based on DECO
[2020-10-06T16:46:25.610Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	fanz: the problem before was that the prover had the same key and then could forge a signed statement
[2020-10-06T16:46:37.889Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... but when you split the key, only the server has the full key
[2020-10-06T16:46:50.081Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... so the prover cannot generate a false signature
[2020-10-06T16:47:35.115Z]	<Taylor_Kendal>	@Moses >> https://www.fanzhang.me/files/talks/deco-w3c-ccg.pdf
[2020-10-06T16:47:55.261Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... After the handshake that establishes the split key, Alice & Bob use the key in a secure manner and Alice can prove things to Bob, all transparent to the server
[2020-10-06T16:48:16.883Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... The server just sees a regular TLS session
[2020-10-06T16:48:42.867Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... Our work on "CanDID" will be reviewed at IIW
[2020-10-06T16:48:48.812Z]	<rgrant>	q+ can Alice send POST data that the TLS connection would have needed to sign?
[2020-10-06T16:49:10.996Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... CanDID is based on a committee, which assumes k-out-of-n are honest
[2020-10-06T16:49:21.106Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... committee stores secrets and verifies proofs
[2020-10-06T16:49:48.302Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	.. So, if a user wants to issues a credential (from the committee) about, for example, her age
[2020-10-06T16:50:08.317Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... the user performs the handshake with committee members
[2020-10-06T16:50:39.682Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... after members of the committee independently verify her age, the committee as a group issues a signed satement about her age
[2020-10-06T16:50:53.064Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... The committee only learns attested data
[2020-10-06T16:51:03.278Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... we can use zero knowledge proofs for that
[2020-10-06T16:51:08.135Z]	<manu>	q+ to ask how the assertion is made from text on a web page such as SSN assertion of birthday?
[2020-10-06T16:51:14.848Z]	<manu>	q+ dmitriz
[2020-10-06T16:51:17.704Z]	<manu>	q- l
[2020-10-06T16:51:19.333Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... https://deco.works for more info
[2020-10-06T16:51:20.054Z]	<manu>	q+ to ask how the assertion is made from text on a web page such as SSN assertion of birthday?
[2020-10-06T16:51:24.121Z]	<manu>	ack m
[2020-10-06T16:51:31.136Z]	<manu>	q?
[2020-10-06T16:51:41.817Z]	<manu>	q-
[2020-10-06T16:51:51.603Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/934 for the paper, accepted to IEEE S&P 2021
[2020-10-06T16:51:54.643Z]	<manu>	ack dmitriz
[2020-10-06T16:51:55.720Z]	<manu>	q+ to ask how the assertion is made from text on a web page such as SSN assertion of birthday?
[2020-10-06T16:52:12.665Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack Hakan_Yildiz_(TU_Berlin)
[2020-10-06T16:52:12.906Z]	<Sergey_Nazarov>	why there were chainlink logo in the cloured balls?
[2020-10-06T16:52:31.882Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack jonathan_holt
[2020-10-06T16:52:38.812Z]	<Kim>	Sergey, good question -- can you queue yourself to ask?
[2020-10-06T16:52:41.546Z]	<jonathan_holt>	https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-yasskin-http-origin-signed-responses-09
[2020-10-06T16:52:55.033Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	jonathan_holt: There is SGX from Google which is a signed response, which does something similar
[2020-10-06T16:53:10.605Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... single handshake exchange of data. What are you thoughts about overlap?
[2020-10-06T16:53:24.888Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	fanz: the one I am familiar with is about http signing.
[2020-10-06T16:53:43.852Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... those solutions are a promising direction to go. the challenge is that this needs changes at the server side
[2020-10-06T16:53:51.600Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... this is a big adoption barrier
[2020-10-06T16:54:08.251Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... Our goal is to be able to do this with existing servers without changes
[2020-10-06T16:54:21.273Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2020-10-06T16:54:27.618Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... Google's solution is nice, similar to OpenID Connect, but needs changing the server
[2020-10-06T16:54:28.273Z]	<Sergey_Nazarov>	when can we see the adoption of this technology?
[2020-10-06T16:54:28.545Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack agropper
[2020-10-06T16:54:54.072Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	agropper: I've proposed a solution to this bootstrap problem using a notary instead of a committee. Would you consider that a valid use of Deco?
[2020-10-06T16:55:29.735Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... the notary has to install the new technology. The verifier and Alice both choose to trust the notary, and Deco would be the technology embedded along with the other credential management, but without a committee
[2020-10-06T16:55:47.429Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	fanz: that's correct. The notary is just a committee of size one.
[2020-10-06T16:55:56.728Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... so as long as Alice & Bob trust the notary, it works
[2020-10-06T16:56:13.626Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... Note also that the committee does additional things, such as storing secrets.
[2020-10-06T16:56:28.723Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... when that is distributed it has some security and privacy enhancements
[2020-10-06T16:56:30.381Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2020-10-06T16:56:34.144Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack rgrant
[2020-10-06T16:56:53.474Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	rgrant: can Alice send post data without a functional key on the TLS channel?
[2020-10-06T16:57:08.754Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	ack manu
[2020-10-06T16:57:13.889Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	fanz: Yes. The protocol on top of TLS doesn't matter. TLS is still fully functional
[2020-10-06T16:57:31.307Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	manu: I don't understand how the actual signed statement actually gets over to the verifier
[2020-10-06T16:58:07.909Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... e.g., using the Deco protocol, I end up at the SSA said which asserts age. How is the ZKP for that value... how is that statement sent back to the verifier?
[2020-10-06T16:58:20.910Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... Typically we'd use a VC for that, but you seem to be suggesting something else
[2020-10-06T16:58:27.243Z]	<brent>	and how is the information associated with the holder in a verifiable way?
[2020-10-06T16:58:29.748Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	fanz: Good question
[2020-10-06T16:58:43.476Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... The relying party in the CanDID statement is not the committee.
[2020-10-06T16:58:55.321Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... the verifier gets the statement from the committee
[2020-10-06T16:59:07.153Z]	<kimhd>	It looks like Chainlink acquired DECO
[2020-10-06T16:59:17.289Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... The committee members reach a consensus and then generate a new credential which can be used by Alice
[2020-10-06T16:59:28.958Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	manu: how does the committee become convinced?
[2020-10-06T16:59:39.577Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q?
[2020-10-06T16:59:40.060Z]	<Sergey_Nazarov>	DECO = chainlink oracles?
[2020-10-06T17:00:02.866Z]	<newone>	chainlink bought it
[2020-10-06T17:00:05.655Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	fanz: they committee is participating in Deco. They can tell that the data comes from SSA. They can see the data directly and verify that it is derived from the web page.
[2020-10-06T17:00:21.210Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	... it is as if they are looking at Alice's profile at SSA without the password.
[2020-10-06T17:00:36.032Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	manu: basically a cryptographic screen sharing
[2020-10-06T17:00:59.699Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	fanz: exactly. cryptographic tamper proof AND also ZKP for minimal disclosure
[2020-10-06T17:01:06.214Z]	<by_caballero>	wait a literal screenshot or the HTML of the displayed page???
[2020-10-06T17:01:21.411Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	wayne: Thanks, Fan!
[2020-10-06T17:02:52.858Z]	<heathervescent>	thanks manu. I'm already gone actually
