[2020-02-24T16:06:44.485Z]	<chriswinc>	present+ 
[2020-02-24T16:06:59.660Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:07:09.956Z]	<AJackl>	Good Morning everyone!
[2020-02-24T16:07:30.472Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Good afternoon ;-)
[2020-02-24T16:07:48.809Z]	<JamesChartrand>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:08:24.900Z]	<larinyo>	q?
[2020-02-24T16:09:44.473Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Feb/0080.html
[2020-02-24T16:09:50.613Z]	<larinyo>	voip:6a6 is larinyo
[2020-02-24T16:10:45.914Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Feb/0080.html
[2020-02-24T16:11:20.625Z]	<larinyo>	Good afternoon! I am unable to connect through Linphone, any otheer option?
[2020-02-24T16:11:28.473Z]	<AJackl>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:11:41.171Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-02-24T16:11:46.036Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:11:53.503Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-02-24T16:11:55.340Z]	<larinyo>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:12:03.874Z]	<JamesChartrand>	I am using onsip.com
[2020-02-24T16:12:12.754Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-02-24T16:12:38.470Z]	<Jim_G>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:12:39.683Z]	<AlanD>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:12:40.410Z]	<adamjlemmon>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:12:43.579Z]	<MattLisle>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:12:50.274Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:13:27.310Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:13:32.536Z]	<larinyo>	q?
[2020-02-24T16:14:09.500Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: Jim_G
[2020-02-24T16:14:25.611Z]	<AJackl>	Thanks Jim- didn't want to volunteer because I wasn't sure what was needed!
[2020-02-24T16:14:26.842Z]	<kimhd>	alias: said something
[2020-02-24T16:14:28.818Z]	<srpattison>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:14:34.271Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to say I could volunteer to scribe next week, thanks Jim for scribing this week.
[2020-02-24T16:14:39.753Z]	<juancaballero>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:14:48.993Z]	<juancaballero>	sorry can't scribe today, bad connection!
[2020-02-24T16:14:52.510Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-24T16:14:55.913Z]	<stuartf>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:15:00.698Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-02-24T16:15:12.537Z]	<Jim_G>	Nate agreed to scribe next week
[2020-02-24T16:15:50.259Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2020-02-24T16:16:12.376Z]	<Jim_G>	Alex Jackl introduced himself
[2020-02-24T16:16:17.213Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	q+ to say hello :-)
[2020-02-24T16:16:39.012Z]	<kimhd>	ack Simone_Ravaioli
[2020-02-24T16:17:04.731Z]	<juancaballero>	https://www.uschamberfoundation.org/t3-innovation <-- AJackL mentioned being involved in this cool effort I'd never heard of until just now!
[2020-02-24T16:17:25.861Z]	<juancaballero>	also https://www.a4l.org/
[2020-02-24T16:17:42.616Z]	<Jim_G>	Simone_Ravaioli has been working on standards across globe, with IMS & PESC, fan of Open Badges
[2020-02-24T16:17:46.593Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-24T16:18:30.582Z]	<Jim_G>	Chris Huston with eLumen co-chair CLR with IMS introduced himself
[2020-02-24T16:18:30.844Z]	<kimhd>	Chris Houston (CLR/IMS) introducing himself
[2020-02-24T16:18:57.714Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qAT4y3ZEXczY8CfisszPIcLamhcm_JTsRbBi5GjSd0w/edit#slide=id.g7e30d5ef78_0_543
[2020-02-24T16:19:24.971Z]	<Jim_G>	Greg Nadeau talking about what goes inside the VC "envelope"
[2020-02-24T16:20:10.781Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: What's inside the credential envelope?
[2020-02-24T16:20:20.576Z]	<leonardr>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:24:40.524Z]	<Jim_G>	slide 46 - put achievement (definition) on the outside of the envelope, the assertion on the inside
[2020-02-24T16:26:42.401Z]	<kimhd>	voip: noise?
[2020-02-24T16:28:52.926Z]	<kimhd>	q+ to mention recipient id and pending DID support in open badges (possibly CLR?)
[2020-02-24T16:30:44.464Z]	<kimhd>	q+ to ask how we can propose examples for modeling
[2020-02-24T16:31:21.763Z]	<AJackl>	q+ to noting we ar eon Slide 59
[2020-02-24T16:31:22.199Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to describe a "holds" relationship that is a way to fit this type of claim inside the VC envelope
[2020-02-24T16:31:43.563Z]	<juancaballero>	thanks for that!
[2020-02-24T16:33:18.072Z]	<kimhd>	q+ to ask about how we think this will work in with (e.g.) registrar workflows in the future
[2020-02-24T16:34:49.004Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-24T16:34:56.376Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-02-24T16:36:10.057Z]	<HansPongratz>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:36:18.707Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-02-24T16:36:58.914Z]	<Jim_G>	Greg: What badges does with DIDs is what CLR should do with DIDs (and others?)
[2020-02-24T16:37:47.184Z]	<kimhd>	ack AJackl
[2020-02-24T16:39:08.737Z]	<kimhd>	CEDS acronym is "common edu data standard"?
[2020-02-24T16:39:29.292Z]	<Jim_G>	Alex: Beauty of having many work streams is that a lot of work being done, and there is coordination leading to a universal direction
[2020-02-24T16:39:38.605Z]	<kimhd>	q+ Jim_G
[2020-02-24T16:39:41.880Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-24T16:39:51.301Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-02-24T16:39:56.070Z]	<kimhd>	q-
[2020-02-24T16:42:03.227Z]	<kimhd>	Paper from Nate and me about OB as VCs: https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rwot6-santabarbara/blob/master/final-documents/open-badges-are-verifiable-credentials.md
[2020-02-24T16:42:17.959Z]	<Jim_G>	Nate: VC envelope and CLR/OB look a but different but there are ways of using it so that it can be compatible, e.g. achievement with a rubric with different achievement levels, can link achievement level from rubric
[2020-02-24T16:42:19.860Z]	<juancaballero>	^hehe I was there! Didn
[2020-02-24T16:42:26.645Z]	<juancaballero>	't understand much at the time, tho :D
[2020-02-24T16:42:56.699Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	+1 on Nate
[2020-02-24T16:44:09.367Z]	<kimhd>	ack Jim_G
[2020-02-24T16:44:29.031Z]	<kimhd>	Jim_G: CEDS is US edu-supported group focusing on data vocab, logical models
[2020-02-24T16:44:45.411Z]	<kimhd>	...used for data at rest. doesn't get into data transport side of standards
[2020-02-24T16:45:08.347Z]	<kimhd>	...has stayed connected with other data initiatives. U.S. and non-U.S.
[2020-02-24T16:45:55.452Z]	<kimhd>	...can pull in improvements from different SDOs
[2020-02-24T16:46:12.661Z]	<kimhd>	...can provide translations "rosetta stone"
[2020-02-24T16:46:34.724Z]	<Jim_G>	ceds.ed.gov
[2020-02-24T16:48:29.561Z]	<Jim_G>	q+
[2020-02-24T16:48:43.812Z]	<kimhd>	ack Jim_G
[2020-02-24T16:49:39.926Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-24T16:50:55.307Z]	<kimhd>	Jim_G: for learner, wallet will need to support a range, but for "issuers" there will be specific focuses. Work through IEEE ILR happening will help
[2020-02-24T16:51:43.481Z]	<Greg_Nadeau>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13kiWvBm6aC5wwQsjQIvEG0nIRt6TcGjgm2NZvzYeb1w/edit#slide=id.p
[2020-02-24T16:52:13.661Z]	<larinyo>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:52:28.126Z]	<Jim_G>	Chris Houston: SOn got a competency-based report card (shown in slide 2)
[2020-02-24T16:52:47.601Z]	<blazp>	present+
[2020-02-24T16:54:13.245Z]	<Jim_G>	Chris Houston: SLide 3 shows JSON notation of the competency-based report card assertion, would work inside the assertion envelope we've been talking about
[2020-02-24T16:56:57.012Z]	<Jim_G>	Chris Houston: Rubric-criterion labels and competencies are the assertion
[2020-02-24T16:57:15.832Z]	<kimhd>	Simone: can I add you to the q to give us your high-level thoughts on where similar work is happening in europe? (We'd like to ask you to lead a dedicated call to discuss in-depth later)
[2020-02-24T16:57:34.440Z]	<Jim_G>	Chris Houston: Uses OB mechanism for email / hashing
[2020-02-24T16:59:16.966Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	sure
[2020-02-24T16:59:17.036Z]	<Jim_G>	Chris Houston: Associations used t place the assertion or the related achievement on a graph
[2020-02-24T17:00:10.964Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to describe how the CLR standards implementer ecosystem might evolve
[2020-02-24T17:00:44.741Z]	<kimhd>	q+ Simone_Ravaoli
[2020-02-24T17:00:47.132Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-02-24T17:01:01.080Z]	<Jim_G>	Greg: There are some things I disagree with (how to approach similar solutions) It will not take months....we are working out differences
[2020-02-24T17:01:29.398Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-02-24T17:03:08.701Z]	<Jim_G>	Nate Otto: Evolution of the CLR - candidate public final (available for public viewing) - no one has signed up to be a consumer implementation of CLR yet, 2 publisher implementations
[2020-02-24T17:04:25.099Z]	<Jim_G>	Nate: IMS leadership expressed some interest for compatibility to W3C VC, but not yet clear what that means...
[2020-02-24T17:04:27.094Z]	<AJackl>	q+
[2020-02-24T17:04:50.806Z]	<Jim_G>	Nate: we should look at actual examples and code to see that it can work
[2020-02-24T17:04:59.054Z]	<kimhd>	ack Simone_Ravaoli
[2020-02-24T17:06:34.014Z]	<Jim_G>	Simone: CEN standard in EU then EC put financing into some ERASMOS projects...
[2020-02-24T17:07:22.519Z]	<Jim_G>	SImone: Now EUROpass project EUROpass digital credential ecosystem EDCI
[2020-02-24T17:07:33.953Z]	<kimhd>	ack AJackl
[2020-02-24T17:08:13.286Z]	<kimhd>	I think/hope some of the T3 innovation network pilots will exercise the receiving side
[2020-02-24T17:08:21.987Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	slight corrections on the scribe:  CEN (not CEN),  Erasmus+ (not Erasmos)... thanks so much Jim :-)
[2020-02-24T17:08:27.237Z]	<kimhd>	(in addition to other POCs discussed)
[2020-02-24T17:09:17.392Z]	<Jim_G>	Alex: This problem of not having people receiving the data is a problem across the ecosystem, receiving is the hardest part, effort not to creat a wallet that can hold the different forms of data... then people ready to accept that data ....
[2020-02-24T17:09:27.344Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	thanks all
