[2022-08-16T17:25:33.469Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-08-16T17:30:18.955Z]	<nis>	present+
[2022-08-16T17:30:30.883Z]	<Raad_Al-Husban>	present+
[2022-08-16T17:30:39.029Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2022-08-16T17:31:20.641Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-08-16T17:32:06.804Z]	<Khalid>	present+
[2022-08-16T17:33:03.105Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-08-16T17:34:45.379Z]	<TallTed>	PEBCAK strikes us all at times.
[2022-08-16T17:34:54.245Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-08-16T17:35:00.077Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-08-16T17:35:00.077Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2022-08-16T17:35:20.331Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Agenda: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/AGENDA.md
[2022-08-16T17:35:30.616Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Topic: IP Note, Agenda Review, Scribe Selection
[2022-08-16T17:36:09.446Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2022-08-16T17:36:13.040Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Topic: GitHub Issue & PR review
[2022-08-16T17:36:16.791Z]	<Raad>	present+
[2022-08-16T17:36:30.165Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/524
[2022-08-16T17:36:46.140Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	auto-scribe not working?
[2022-08-16T17:36:55.567Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	It never seems to work for Nis
[2022-08-16T17:38:02.384Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	Nis might need to change browser to make the auto-scribe work
[2022-08-16T17:38:50.428Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay I mean I think the Scribe will be on Chris's side will Chris when people talk does it show where it's coming up on the screen.
[2022-08-16T17:39:02.255Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I can see the CG bought working for you me I've noticed in the past it doesn't work for nests for some reason this what browser are you using.
[2022-08-16T17:39:08.863Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I've actually never seen it work for you yeah.
[2022-08-16T17:39:27.839Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I can do one or two more okay so the next pull request is going in order is do you want to address.
[2022-08-16T17:39:32.980Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/520
[2022-08-16T17:39:35.272Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: 520 has still has unresolved conflicts on this pull request.
[2022-08-16T17:39:51.488Z]	<nis>	present+
[2022-08-16T17:39:59.755Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay so we can say that this is still working progress on.
[2022-08-16T17:40:07.302Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay and this if you're back do you want to give it a shot.
[2022-08-16T17:40:16.056Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/522
[2022-08-16T17:40:23.790Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah that is strange I can take over for Eunice that's.
[2022-08-16T17:40:29.295Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Maybe the maybe the spritebot is faces against people from Denmark or something.
[2022-08-16T17:40:40.436Z]	<Orie>	Report this issue with transciption please, and chase it down.
[2022-08-16T17:40:43.235Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah not not at all I can take over I'm So Okay so we've done.
[2022-08-16T17:40:53.525Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/525
[2022-08-16T17:41:01.970Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: You done 524 it's gone just reload my page here okay so the next one is 525 and the link is coming in to chat now so this is from Vivian Vivian would you like to comment on this one.
[2022-08-16T17:41:21.532Z]	<Transcriber>	vivien: Yes this is a new definition for schedule delivery schedule which is to Mentor a present a plan for transportation of commodity Crossing like borders but I notice no one has approved it so.
[2022-08-16T17:41:37.371Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah this one looks like you put it in two hours ago and had some corrections for Ted is this something that we want to leave for a bit and give people chance to approve before we merge this.
[2022-08-16T17:41:41.764Z]	<Transcriber>	vivien: Yeah I think it's better for people to take a look at it.
[2022-08-16T17:41:45.020Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay I'll add a comment to that effect.
[2022-08-16T17:41:59.689Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay let's move on to 2:55.
[2022-08-16T17:42:02.493Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/523
[2022-08-16T17:42:08.846Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This is from this.
[2022-08-16T17:42:35.666Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay I see that we have two of three approvals on this does anyone object to merging this pull request.
[2022-08-16T17:42:40.444Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I'm Jack's I'll merge now.
[2022-08-16T17:42:48.865Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay that has been merged.
[2022-08-16T17:42:54.157Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/522
[2022-08-16T17:42:56.547Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Next is issue 522 this one is also from this.
[2022-08-16T17:43:21.133Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Excellent it's a very small change has three or four approvals to if no one objects will merge that presently.
[2022-08-16T17:43:35.871Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/520
[2022-08-16T17:43:39.539Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Has been immersed in the final PR is 520 this one is rods robbery like to come in.
[2022-08-16T17:44:16.037Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Got it apologies I forgot that we had already done this one all right that is it I believe for PR sir Trace vocab so let us move on to trace interrupt he ours.
[2022-08-16T17:44:25.058Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Second while of this up.
[2022-08-16T17:44:30.802Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr
[2022-08-16T17:44:39.113Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/348
[2022-08-16T17:44:40.318Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: You're so this will be working off of the first item is PR 348 so when is mine.
[2022-08-16T17:44:53.194Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/289
[2022-08-16T17:45:11.611Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: These are all mine so this is to add some additional responses for did resolution and this is in reference to issue number 289 the problem here is we have some rather generic and somewhat improper responses when the path parameter for the did is either in an invalid value or value that does not represent key.
[2022-08-16T17:45:29.283Z]	<nis>	q+
[2022-08-16T17:45:36.999Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Or just represent something that can't be resolved at the end point so this PR does two things it has a generic 404 to the open API schema and the set of responses for this endpoint and it also adds a specific 400 error for this endpoint in the case where the value is invalid.
[2022-08-16T17:45:43.140Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Looks like we have three approvals does anyone object to merging this in.
[2022-08-16T17:45:49.216Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: - I'm sorry and the queue.
[2022-08-16T17:45:52.728Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	We''ll probably get through all of these, but better (and default) sort order would be https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
[2022-08-16T17:45:56.007Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Got it Juno.
[2022-08-16T17:46:12.677Z]	<Orie>	conflicts
[2022-08-16T17:46:15.363Z]	<Orie>	yep
[2022-08-16T17:46:17.530Z]	<nis>	ack nis
[2022-08-16T17:46:19.520Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay thank you for the correction.
[2022-08-16T17:46:41.479Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Well should be cousin turn it's very important to do the stuff that's been touched for this back in time first so that those old things continue to be on our work list otherwise we'll always look at the first few things that have been most recently opened or touched and that means the old stuff just lingers.
[2022-08-16T17:46:46.007Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
[2022-08-16T17:46:52.254Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Understood okay so I will switch then and begin doing this in this first order makes the next 1327.
[2022-08-16T17:46:55.424Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This one is mine as well.
[2022-08-16T17:46:56.745Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/327
[2022-08-16T17:47:28.009Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This is an update to you the documentation regarding publishing the weekly minutes I've added some screenshots and move this into more of a tutorial format like we have for some of the postman tests so hopefully this is a little bit easier to follow than the documentation that we were previously linking to an external sources I have for approvals.
[2022-08-16T17:47:28.534Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Said you had some.
[2022-08-16T17:47:28.671Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	sorry, I pasted wrong link above :-(  This is the right order https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2022-08-16T17:47:34.933Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It implements and commit does anyone object to merging 327.
[2022-08-16T17:47:53.864Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay next PR is 334.
[2022-08-16T17:47:56.472Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/334
[2022-08-16T17:48:27.146Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This one is mine as well this PR is in response to issue 315 and this is an issue that arises because in the facet area of the generated reports from the testing results we have a fixed height area for listing all of the tests along with a red yellow or green box indicating the result and as we add more tests that fixed area starts to become quite crowded in things we can.
[2022-08-16T17:48:27.517Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy:  to overlap so this is an adjustment to make.
[2022-08-16T17:48:34.705Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: A dynamic height area instead of fixed so that things are just easier to read and don't overlap.
[2022-08-16T17:48:39.906Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: See this has 4 for approvals and objects I'll merge this.
[2022-08-16T17:48:46.660Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	+1 big readability improvement
[2022-08-16T17:48:52.523Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: The next PR is 341.
[2022-08-16T17:48:54.578Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/341
[2022-08-16T17:49:15.886Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: 341 builds off of a previous change that we made when we introduced the text traceability API into the traceability context we have a lingering at vocab in one of the examples that can be converted to use a context for the traceability be one instead.
[2022-08-16T17:49:23.511Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This has or for approvals objects I'll go ahead and merge this.
[2022-08-16T17:49:25.938Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Did you now.
[2022-08-16T17:49:29.777Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And that is complete.
[2022-08-16T17:49:38.794Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay final TR4 J's interop is 346.
[2022-08-16T17:49:39.771Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/346
[2022-08-16T17:50:12.308Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Before six is in response to issue 272 and the goal here is to split the report templates used to generate the conformance and interoperability reports into to Ginga templates so that we can more easily make these reports beverage as we come across data points like the title for example that should not be the same between the two reports and this has.
[2022-08-16T17:50:12.796Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy:  for approvals going to head to merge.
[2022-08-16T17:50:29.230Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Emerged that was the final PR so let us return to trace vocab.
[2022-08-16T17:50:35.603Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And we can begin to go over the issues.
[2022-08-16T17:50:50.313Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2022-08-16T17:50:53.038Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It'll be done in Lisa recently updated order as mentioned previously here's a link to that list.
[2022-08-16T17:51:00.858Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/357
[2022-08-16T17:51:03.087Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: The first issue Trace vocab is 357 and this is yours would you like to comment.
[2022-08-16T17:51:16.467Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It's my audio still working or is been unavailable.
[2022-08-16T17:51:20.118Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And maybe unavailable.
[2022-08-16T17:51:20.204Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: You made me.
[2022-08-16T17:51:28.445Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: No sorry I was putting just get back in bed not right when I came up let me look at the issue and.
[2022-08-16T17:51:46.555Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay okay go yeah go ahead and I think I think the issue for this was that just so we wanted the images in the respect document to appear with the documents that they describe.
[2022-08-16T17:52:11.377Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay is this something that we feel is ready for PR.
[2022-08-16T17:52:16.349Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2022-08-16T17:52:29.289Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think if we're in agreement that we had say yes it's very for PR I think the way to address this would be to have mark down at the top of our demo file that gets interpreted for each credential type.
[2022-08-16T17:52:36.806Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: If that's an acceptable approach we could say ready for PR.
[2022-08-16T17:52:45.401Z]	<Orie>	q-
[2022-08-16T17:52:56.018Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2022-08-16T17:53:06.799Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Looks like Oreos on the queue.
[2022-08-16T17:53:38.252Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: So if you read the open API specification 3 it has a series of fields that describe themselves as being marked down and I believe that those fields can be used to accomplish this objective so I'd like for the action item on a ticket to describe either exploiting open API specification three definitions for markdown compatible fields or for an alternative solution to be proposed and if we agree that we're going to use OS.
[2022-08-16T17:53:38.918Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Was that support markdown.
[2022-08-16T17:53:39.031Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: To solve this thing.
[2022-08-16T17:53:43.917Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: You believe it is ready for PR.
[2022-08-16T17:53:57.776Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay and does that sound like a.
[2022-08-16T17:54:05.244Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Solution here do you want to review that and we did.
[2022-08-16T17:54:11.138Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I agree I made a comment to that effect I'm yeah I made a comment to the effect and if you would like the honors of applying the ready for po pack.
[2022-08-16T17:54:15.820Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I will do it would you like me to assign you to that or.
[2022-08-16T17:54:20.413Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Sure I'll make it take it and track it.
[2022-08-16T17:54:34.608Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay next item Up 365 Benjamin this one is yours as well.
[2022-08-16T17:54:34.784Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/365
[2022-08-16T17:55:03.154Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I'm not entirely sure this is this might be stale I think we were talking on the call to something of the effect that the CD was not updating the respect document but I think as far as I can tell it is so if unless I'm completely crazy I think this can be closed.
[2022-08-16T17:55:12.987Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I know that we had this issue in Trace interop last week it was fixed.
[2022-08-16T17:55:25.467Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: But if we're if you're confident that this is no longer an issue than I think you know we can close this.
[2022-08-16T17:55:33.960Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think Nest you want to double check to see if your changes were to have if we have any.
[2022-08-16T17:55:57.367Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I'm pretty free I'm pretty sure we made updated updates the respect document recently that updated text and such and I believe those have been implemented as a CD so I think we can probably safely close this issue.
[2022-08-16T17:55:58.760Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay I will close.
[2022-08-16T17:56:13.293Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay next is issue 366 on the call.
[2022-08-16T17:56:20.686Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/366
[2022-08-16T17:56:22.769Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Is there anyone that can comment on 366 from a food or should we skip this one.
[2022-08-16T17:56:32.030Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I'll let him know that we're saving this for when he's able to join.
[2022-08-16T17:56:48.190Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/370
[2022-08-16T17:56:48.299Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It's 370s This one belongs to eat.
[2022-08-16T17:57:56.240Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay next is.
[2022-08-16T17:58:02.409Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This one is Benjamins.
[2022-08-16T17:58:02.939Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/369
[2022-08-16T17:58:15.725Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Let's see I'm reading over it.
[2022-08-16T17:58:47.723Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think I did this get a dress I think I might have had a PR something that address this the main thing is I found we're associating the term credential with verify your credentials which means we would expect to see something with the credential subject and a proof and so there were a bunch of schemas such as order registration Prudential where it did not have.
[2022-08-16T17:58:52.227Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Proof it was just a normal Json file.
[2022-08-16T17:59:06.303Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think a lot of these might have been removed potentially but I can't remember exactly.
[2022-08-16T17:59:13.880Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay can I tag you to review and see if this still needs to be active.
[2022-08-16T17:59:37.571Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay looks like it looks like I was able to find it yeah so to to talk on the call as are we yeah or he's posting in the comment binding data registration credential order registration credential product code registration credential if you look inside.
[2022-08-16T17:59:44.278Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Hey I can post in the.
[2022-08-16T18:00:08.970Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Koston it all we have is type order registration credential order ID probably sorta certificate name so there's no there's no claims there's no you know these are not verify with these are not verify your credentials these are just Json files and so if no one's claiming responsibility that they should either be changed or removed and are we in agreement on that.
[2022-08-16T18:00:27.773Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay so I guess should we say this is ready for PR then.
[2022-08-16T18:00:41.763Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: No it should it should say on the issue what the action is to take and then it would be ready for PR so is the suggestion to remove the credential suffix from these types.
[2022-08-16T18:00:52.067Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: How are we going to remove the suffix or we're going to remove the Jason because I doubt they're being referenced anywhere.
[2022-08-16T18:01:11.958Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Okay the whichever of those actions you believe should be taken should be left as a comment on the issue prior to saying it's ready for PR we would say it's ready we are if we all agreed to the action that was described on the issue.
[2022-08-16T18:01:16.786Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay the suggested action is to remove the files and I left a comment indicating that.
[2022-08-16T18:01:21.488Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: I'm in favor of removing them just for the record.
[2022-08-16T18:01:26.771Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay nobody objects I will add ready to PR.
[2022-08-16T18:01:35.865Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: And then I guess like me or this on that.
[2022-08-16T18:01:39.047Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Tag you were assigned you.
[2022-08-16T18:01:41.243Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Are yes I mean.
[2022-08-16T18:01:52.333Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay next issue is 385 earnest.
[2022-08-16T18:01:58.024Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/385
[2022-08-16T18:02:22.976Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I'm sorry I didn't hear the last part you'll tag yourself in.
[2022-08-16T18:02:44.573Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Miss your audio kind of trails off so I'm not sure if your neck is obstructed but make sure you're speaking into the microphone.
[2022-08-16T18:03:09.518Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay next issue is 389 this one is from Mike Russell are you on the call I don't think he is can anyone comment on this one I'm not familiar with it myself.
[2022-08-16T18:03:11.268Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/389
[2022-08-16T18:03:23.610Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I'm going to go ahead and indicate that we need some more information for Mike.
[2022-08-16T18:03:48.192Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay let's move on to 390.
[2022-08-16T18:03:59.109Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: P90 is also from Mike looks like request for Russell to add some credentials for some specific items.
[2022-08-16T18:04:11.009Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Which issue is this.
[2022-08-16T18:04:14.807Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Or do you feel like we can add ready for PR here or I'm sorry this is 390.
[2022-08-16T18:04:17.984Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/390
[2022-08-16T18:04:21.719Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: I only really look at it once the link goes into the chat just for the record.
[2022-08-16T18:04:26.191Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Right I think it's the same kind of thing.
[2022-08-16T18:04:26.234Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Looks like request for more credits.
[2022-08-16T18:04:35.806Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Same sort of thing that Mike was saying before I think the action item is to create some certificate types for this I'll leave a comment on it.
[2022-08-16T18:04:54.051Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: All right I'll let you comment and we can move on to 399.
[2022-08-16T18:04:59.106Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/399
[2022-08-16T18:04:59.284Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: 399 is also moons.
[2022-08-16T18:05:15.521Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Ceci requested bundle traceability contacts into an npm package can anyone comments on this.
[2022-08-16T18:05:47.040Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: I can comment on this so we frequently do this for dads and VCS and at least you know it's just speaking for transmute I'd be happy to publish the traceability of vocabulary is an npm context however relying on it as a static context seems very much unwise to do while we're accepting pull.
[2022-08-16T18:05:47.267Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie:  West's that are altering the.
[2022-08-16T18:06:05.654Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Shinobi context file that's being shipped so I would say that this is basically blocked pending publishing of a stable version that's not going to be altered and I'll leave a comment to that effect on them on the issue.
[2022-08-16T18:06:08.273Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay would you like me to add the blocked label while you're doing that.
[2022-08-16T18:06:16.458Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Doesn't appear that we have one in this repo of create one.
[2022-08-16T18:06:31.050Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Do you want to differentiate internally fuck the rest I think we have an externally blocked I think what it does blocked in by internally blocks.
[2022-08-16T18:06:44.616Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Maybe we should make it say internally blocked since we do have any specific externally blocked.
[2022-08-16T18:06:52.879Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I will do that.
[2022-08-16T18:07:14.876Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay let us move on to 395.
[2022-08-16T18:07:15.801Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/395
[2022-08-16T18:07:21.665Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This one is yours as well.
[2022-08-16T18:07:36.124Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Let's do this was the one of versus.
[2022-08-16T18:07:48.693Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Any of for the entity thing I think this was addressing the pull request and so my suggestion would be to close this if.
[2022-08-16T18:07:51.665Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Knowing that sex.
[2022-08-16T18:08:08.581Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I think this this was for entity so the entity type was moved to entity type and yeah this was the entity migration thing.
[2022-08-16T18:08:12.756Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: This is the pull request that resulted in the explosion of undefined terms.
[2022-08-16T18:08:36.888Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Yes that's correct so regarding this address json-ld process issue with one of schemas this ticket corresponds to the translation between Json schema to json-ld context as I'm as I understand it and.
[2022-08-16T18:08:56.651Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: It is a fact that today our Json schema processor does not build json-ld contexts that are aware of one of so for this particular item the way that I interpret it was that this is a request for that processor to be made aware of one of.
[2022-08-16T18:08:57.009Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie:  does that.
[2022-08-16T18:09:00.773Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Aligned with what other folks thought the issue was about.
[2022-08-16T18:09:08.374Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Because if not then we just don't even have consensus on what the issue is about.
[2022-08-16T18:09:42.896Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I think that was defined as approach number for which there are no volunteers for this this issue was specifically narrowly defined to one of four entity being either a person or an organization and that was not being handled by our json-ld processor and that we Define several you know five possible approaches to address this and I think the specific approach for this would be to was that we create.
[2022-08-16T18:09:44.352Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Entity type specific.
[2022-08-16T18:09:50.326Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Jason property for that for.
[2022-08-16T18:10:06.219Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I think yeah which number.
[2022-08-16T18:10:15.275Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Right which then created the undefined term problem but so I suggest we close this issue and we just pick up this concept again fresh start work more narrowly defined issues for this it's not the people processor and then for the ad type 2 type aliasing for undefined terms and all defined classes.
[2022-08-16T18:10:27.464Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I agree I the if we want to create a specific issue for one of that could be its own issue.
[2022-08-16T18:10:34.146Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay Benjamin would you mind creating a comment to that effect.
[2022-08-16T18:10:54.158Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/379
[2022-08-16T18:11:13.938Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Do we want to order to create this issue first.
[2022-08-16T18:11:29.228Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Or did you want to create those issues or do you want nearness to create this issues.
[2022-08-16T18:11:39.678Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: I'd like for you to create the issues and Link them before closing this one I think we can close it outside of the call once it's been handled by descendants.
[2022-08-16T18:11:49.999Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay next issue is from you or this is number 379.
[2022-08-16T18:11:54.575Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Regarding Max size limit for json-ld view seats.
[2022-08-16T18:12:24.387Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Really right so we all know that Json documents can in practice become so large so as to fail to fit into certain database engines it's fairly common that the mongodb like be some limits be applied to Json representations and specs so you would say you know okay we're creating Json formatted verifiable credentials but there is a maximum.
[2022-08-16T18:12:24.693Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie:  payment size limit for the file.
[2022-08-16T18:12:55.681Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: And that's what this ticket is sort of seeking advice for and what we would do is we would gain consensus on what the largest credential that we think should be illegal traceable credential would be and then we might even want to take some some padding room on that so that you could make a presentation of it you might not be able to make a presentation of the largest possible credential plus some other stuff if you didn't have good padding on your largest possible credential so those.
[2022-08-16T18:12:56.107Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie:  those are the concerns that are.
[2022-08-16T18:13:16.066Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Got it so I think the next step would be for someone to put forth a suggestion on what that maximum size should be or at least where we should try and find it you mentioned Mongo sizes being a common.
[2022-08-16T18:14:25.310Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay do we want to talk about whether we have consensus on adopting mongodb conventions and moving to ready to PR or do you want to let people sit with this for a bit.
[2022-08-16T18:14:34.723Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: If no one has an opinion on that I would suggest we sit with it for a little bit.
[2022-08-16T18:14:43.986Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I would I would be okay with moment to be conventions I'm going to put a thumbs up on that.
[2022-08-16T18:14:56.410Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay I agree with that as well.
[2022-08-16T18:15:07.988Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So we have a direction we have size shall we make this ready for PR.
[2022-08-16T18:15:24.698Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Next issue is 204.
[2022-08-16T18:15:30.193Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/204
[2022-08-16T18:16:15.080Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Yes I might make a suggestion why don't you ask the list for help with this maybe ask the ask the maintainers of an ontology or ask the public credentials mailing list.
[2022-08-16T18:16:25.446Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: If you're struggling to move it along just share the issue give them some contexts and ask them for help in a polite manner.
[2022-08-16T18:16:43.166Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So you add that note to the okay the next is 267.
[2022-08-16T18:16:47.966Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/267
[2022-08-16T18:16:50.273Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It's just one is yours regarding bill of lading must have description of cargo.
[2022-08-16T18:17:54.629Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay thank you.
[2022-08-16T18:18:00.555Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: The next issue is you 68.
[2022-08-16T18:18:03.138Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/268
[2022-08-16T18:18:03.612Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Is opened by Vladimir.
[2022-08-16T18:18:11.480Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And it was regarding a wrong un CL 1153 namespace.
[2022-08-16T18:18:29.604Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Already the last suggestion was from you that we make a concrete proposal here or close the issue no one has made such a concrete proposal if anyone would like to do so I think now would be the time otherwise perhaps we should add pending close.
[2022-08-16T18:18:48.949Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: He's asking for Curry's I think we've decided not to use curries I suggest we say we've discussed this and the working group has decided not to use carice close the issue.
[2022-08-16T18:18:52.196Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Well I don't know now.
[2022-08-16T18:19:06.018Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: 268 has been closed.
[2022-08-16T18:19:10.513Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: X issue is 157.
[2022-08-16T18:19:13.939Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/157
[2022-08-16T18:19:14.196Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Or are you open this one.
[2022-08-16T18:19:24.417Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It's related to examples for geo spark Sparkle GI.
[2022-08-16T18:19:52.725Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Yeah this is from the beginning I don't think we've ever seen any Geo Sparkle examples added we have been using schema.org geo coordinates and the place sort of representation places a class that defines both addresses and locations in GPS coordinate world so I suggest we close this issue because there hasn't been any activity on it and I think we've got a good.
[2022-08-16T18:19:59.972Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: How to handle this stuff using the schema.org place already in place.
[2022-08-16T18:20:10.012Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I'll sing with comments.
[2022-08-16T18:20:26.958Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: K next issue is 2746 Ellie I Authority also from glad but a mere can anyone comments on this issue from Vladimir.
[2022-08-16T18:20:27.235Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/274
[2022-08-16T18:20:48.619Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Do we feel this is pending close stale or close now stale.
[2022-08-16T18:21:00.657Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Or he has suggested we close now due to inactivity.
[2022-08-16T18:21:04.528Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Favor of that does anyone object.
[2022-08-16T18:21:10.015Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Was it now.
[2022-08-16T18:21:19.782Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Next is 276 another one from Vladimir.
[2022-08-16T18:21:26.325Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/276
[2022-08-16T18:21:28.640Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Anyone can comments on this you stu.
[2022-08-16T18:22:03.292Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yep already has suggested that we closed because this has been implemented so let's do that.
[2022-08-16T18:22:08.588Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Buzzing with comet.
[2022-08-16T18:22:20.111Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It was me I lost my place to 78.
[2022-08-16T18:22:26.853Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/278
[2022-08-16T18:22:32.185Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: 278 was also opened by a mere anyone comments on 278.
[2022-08-16T18:22:37.891Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Ping's Mike back in May but there's been no activity since then.
[2022-08-16T18:23:10.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Yeah so I mean I think this is just a general thing we keep running into where we've got you know an rdf class that we'd probably all prefer to share but it's been introduced in a vertical specific context and generally the rule there is that you if you introduced it in that way you should work to make it more generic so I think we should just ask for these properties to be moved to an rdf class.
[2022-08-16T18:23:10.965Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: That would be.
[2022-08-16T18:23:17.216Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Benton on agriculture use cases and I'll leave a comment on the issue suggesting that.
[2022-08-16T18:23:21.788Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay and this one is ours so if you could tag Russell on that.
[2022-08-16T18:23:38.098Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So the next one is 279.
[2022-08-16T18:23:38.700Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/279
[2022-08-16T18:23:44.964Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This one is also Vladimir's anyone comment on 279.
[2022-08-16T18:24:05.803Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It's you added ready for PR back in May.
[2022-08-16T18:24:22.541Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: They went to check to removing ready for PR.
[2022-08-16T18:24:45.849Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: I think the the label should be removed the last comment prior to adding a ready for PR label should be a clear action that a developer or contributor could take to resolve the issue.
[2022-08-16T18:24:46.034Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I agree how remove that now.
[2022-08-16T18:24:54.559Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Is the issue being said here is just we're using the same term place for two different things is that the only.
[2022-08-16T18:25:06.254Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: That's numbers using identifiers and you wi is using identifiers.
[2022-08-16T18:25:20.137Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: There isn't anything wrong with with that to be clear like you can say this attribute uses this this identifier type that's fine.
[2022-08-16T18:25:24.395Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Yeah it's not.
[2022-08-16T18:25:33.476Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I don't think that's the error that he's flagging if you read the to the titles of those two things that he copied yes it is a kind of paste error I'm sure note that batch numbers title is unique well identifier.
[2022-08-16T18:25:43.292Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): And clearly it's better should be something more like batch number.
[2022-08-16T18:26:04.246Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Is there a specific to oil certificate types is that correct.
[2022-08-16T18:26:24.343Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Should we start adding like a label so that we can filter issues by use case like for example oil and gas issues.
[2022-08-16T18:26:32.433Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Folks want to do that just so it's easy for you to quickly come in and see the things that are relevant to your use cases that you might pick at.
[2022-08-16T18:26:37.672Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I think that's a good idea.
[2022-08-16T18:26:42.655Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: You have quite a few tickets so that would be helpful.
[2022-08-16T18:26:49.892Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Is that something you're volunteering or doing all right.
[2022-08-16T18:26:59.762Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Yep I will create some labels for the use cases and I will apply them as we go through from now.
[2022-08-16T18:27:13.659Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Excellent thank you regarding this one do we want to specifically call out what the bugs are that need to be addressed we did have a bit of confusion at the outset so maybe clearing that up would be helpful before we ready for PR.
[2022-08-16T18:27:37.166Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay now I would make a comment just stating that so we don't like.
[2022-08-16T18:27:49.874Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: For you to do that and I will add ready to for PR or you cannot ready for PR.
[2022-08-16T18:28:03.512Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay the next issue is an oldie number 24.
[2022-08-16T18:28:04.588Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/24
[2022-08-16T18:28:12.603Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Or is this one was originally yours.
[2022-08-16T18:28:19.707Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Some of the recent comments were from this I can anyone comments on number 24.
[2022-08-16T18:28:52.969Z]	<Transcriber>	vivien: I don't think there's any progress on this from the side.
[2022-08-16T18:29:15.008Z]	<Transcriber>	vivien: Yeah there's some event on the crystal cup and there are other likes of events that extend from heaven.
[2022-08-16T18:30:25.292Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: My understanding of this ticket is that it's an ancient ticket tracking an intention to support EPC is which is now better tracked and more focused fresher tickets so I would suggest leaving a comment to the effect of we have other tickets to track implementing and adding support for EPC is and link to those tickets and then close this one.
[2022-08-16T18:30:29.847Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Miss will you accept that desk.
[2022-08-16T18:30:47.026Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This one is open by Miss and also had some comments on it.
[2022-08-16T18:30:50.091Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/312
[2022-08-16T18:31:10.604Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Looking back at it.
[2022-08-16T18:31:23.973Z]	<TallTed>	we're over time, folks
[2022-08-16T18:31:39.062Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Value is type string I think to be want to be have bio to be a type okay yeah that's it my user string I think should we update it to type number ready for PR looks like the last time we agree to this we can put ready for PR and I guess we didn't nessen anyone so I guess.
[2022-08-16T18:31:39.375Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute:  I can assign.
[2022-08-16T18:31:59.735Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: After this to track it and then that way when I filter issues by ones I've been assigned to you I can pick this up again all right are we okay for that suggestion of changing by you from a string to a number or should buy your administering.
[2022-08-16T18:32:06.056Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It's only a number if it never includes the units in this attribute.
[2022-08-16T18:32:14.397Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Threaten me the text values is number okay thank you or.
[2022-08-16T18:32:39.051Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: All the recommended also we're at time.
[2022-08-16T18:32:42.435Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Thank you for noticing that.
[2022-08-16T18:32:59.268Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Right we're supposed to end five minutes early from now on for these calls also or the new w3c process so I think we should stop right here and follow up with the notes and see you all next week.
[2022-08-16T18:33:05.326Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Do I have a volunteer to publish the notes.
[2022-08-16T18:33:16.194Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I can do it if nobody is interested I would like someone else to do it simply to follow the new instructions and tell me if they're good or bad.
[2022-08-16T18:33:26.487Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Agree I'm since you did the documentation on the instructions I think you should be free so Ness or been one of you should try it.
[2022-08-16T18:33:31.719Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Excellent thank you Miss.
[2022-08-16T19:23:51.223Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-08-16T19:25:03.173Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
