Thanks to Nis Jespersen  and Our Robot Overlords and Nis Jespersen  for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-01-23-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-01-23-traceability/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-01-23.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2024-01-23

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jan&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Nis Jespersen  and Our Robot Overlords and Nis Jespersen 
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Guilherme, Patrick St-Louis, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Chris 
  Abernethy, Ted Thibodeau

Nis Jespersen  is scribing.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I didn't hear this recording started.
Nis Jespersen  is scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Welcome
Nis Jespersen :  Guiheme is new here
[Nis feeling shame]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/923
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/926
Patrick St-Louis:  Reached out to Nis on linked in to connect on 
  923. Still pending
Nis Jespersen :  The term counter is just updated locally then 
  gets included in the commit
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Merged
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/927
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/629
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/564
Nis Jespersen :  This only fixes a tiny part of 964
Which we need to discuss more depth.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We'll get to that
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/928
Nis Jespersen :  Got sort of stuck on this
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I like the govt framing, but not only US
Nis Jespersen :  One is US, one is EU
They are quotes from White House, the other for EU COmmission
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  When I read it, I didn't get that
Patrick St-Louis:  What I understand from Canada BC is to come 
  into contact with US border agency. Trace is a means to do that
So it does have a US connotation
Nis Jespersen : +1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes, there is a connotation. US govt 
  contracts
However, w3c ccg is not able to make anything binding for the US, 
  speak on behalf or anything
The intention is to make a broader interoperability standard
Patrick St-Louis:  Makes sense, there needs to be frameworks to 
  align to
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  The first paragraph needs to be longer
Nis Jespersen :  Yes, it sucks
Let's leave it, I'll fix it up
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/620
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Switching to interop
Patrick St-Louis:  The VC API expects the /credentials/issue 
  response to be the verifiable credential
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes, but the issuer tests just test give me 
  the VC directly
Patrick St-Louis:  I know, in interop it expects what the spec 
  says
It is a frustrating situation
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think it's straight forward, I think it's 
  a bug on the test suite
Just raise a bug issue, it should be a small fix
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Are there any other deviations you have 
  noticed?
Patrick St-Louis:  Signature type on the option, that's all
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/620/
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/622/files
Ted Thibodeau:  All good
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Should we keep running or revisit v1 issues
Chris Abernethy: +1 To finish initial tagging of all issues 
  before we go back over those already tagged
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/564
Ted Thibodeau:  564 Got closed - unintentionally
Nis Jespersen :  I could delete sizerOrAmount due to OG and Agri
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We need that to express e.g. 7 barrels of 
  oil
Generic enough to be used on many different types of products
Any ideas on how to do that?
Potentially replace sizeOrAmount with quantity
Nis Jespersen :  Quantity belongs on line item
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  But you can have 7 barrels without being 
  quantity 7
Ted Thibodeau:  We are trying to make everything all at once
That's zero modelling
Throw all attributes against the wall
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Proposal: remove sizeOrAmount, replace with 
  quantity
EPCIS solves this with a generic quantity element
Nis Jespersen :  Quantity is on line items
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Each batch is its own distinct product
76000 Barrels of oil being put in a pipeline
The Batch is unique
Just volume might work
Ted Thibodeau:  On agri it will be a silo
This is very specific and very generic product specification
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It might be because this is the only one we 
  have
Ted Thibodeau:  Are we working from any kind of paper form, or 
  are we just making it up?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  50/50 On OG
Chris Abernethy:  Will ping Russel
Nis Jespersen :  Consider line items
Ted Thibodeau:  Product has properties, volume could be measured 
  in gallons - and you specify the type you are measuring in
Batch is the container holding the product you are getting
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Because its a fluid, batch is always used
Strawberrys don't change is the batch changes. For oil they do.
Ted Thibodeau:  Batch sounds like "lot". That's because 
  strawberrys are not fluid
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  This specific collection of barrel
We could remove volume from generic to crudeOil type
Nis Jespersen :  You need an abstract class for the product
Ted Thibodeau:  Volume matters
Nis Jespersen :  Separate type of product from traded volume
Ted Thibodeau:  The batch is the product
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Not straight forward because they can be 
  forwarded. They can't be fungable
Ted Thibodeau:  Of course it can, siphon off a gallon
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  But then it's a new batch
Nis Jespersen :  Don't you need the batch class
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That's OGproduct
Ted Thibodeau:  It's broken, generic has no size or volume. 
  Product is "Liquid x".
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Industry works with crude oil product. It 
  defines a number of properties on top of product.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I will try that, de-assigning Nis, assigning 
  Mahmoud and Russell
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/379
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/273
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/739
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/385
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/717
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/406
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/827
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  A functioning OAS should be v1
Volunteers to fix this?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/865
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/866
Thank you everyone
