[2024-01-23T18:31:56.225Z]	<nis>	present+
[2024-01-23T18:31:56.226Z]	<Guilherme>	present+
[2024-01-23T18:32:33.148Z]	<Guilherme>	present+
[2024-01-23T18:32:37.791Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2024-01-23T18:32:48.052Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-01-23T18:33:04.484Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2024-01-23T18:33:58.544Z]	<nis>	scribe+
[2024-01-23T18:34:05.681Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-01-23T18:34:05.681Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-01-23T18:34:19.988Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud: I didn't hear this recording started.
[2024-01-23T18:34:59.045Z]	<nis>	scribe+
[2024-01-23T18:35:05.881Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2024-01-23T18:35:28.488Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Welcome
[2024-01-23T18:35:44.546Z]	<nis>	Nis: Guiheme is new here
[2024-01-23T18:35:51.915Z]	<nis>	[Nis feeling shame]
[2024-01-23T18:35:53.360Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/923
[2024-01-23T18:36:20.805Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/926
[2024-01-23T18:37:00.696Z]	<nis>	Patrick: reached out to Nis on linked in to connect on 923. Still pending
[2024-01-23T18:38:13.071Z]	<nis>	Nis: the term counter is just updated locally then gets included in the commit
[2024-01-23T18:38:18.097Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: merged
[2024-01-23T18:38:19.538Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/927
[2024-01-23T18:39:18.109Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/629
[2024-01-23T18:39:47.435Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/564
[2024-01-23T18:40:09.129Z]	<nis>	Nis: this only fixes a tiny part of 964
[2024-01-23T18:40:35.296Z]	<nis>	Which we need to discuss more depth.
[2024-01-23T18:40:44.358Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we'll get to that
[2024-01-23T18:40:54.977Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/928
[2024-01-23T18:41:59.577Z]	<nis>	Nis: got sort of stuck on this
[2024-01-23T18:42:21.461Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I like the govt framing, but not only US
[2024-01-23T18:42:48.119Z]	<nis>	Nis: one is US, one is EU
[2024-01-23T18:43:15.509Z]	<nis>	They are quotes from White House, the other for EU COmmission
[2024-01-23T18:43:34.319Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: when I read it, I didn't get that
[2024-01-23T18:44:00.328Z]	<nis>	Patrick: what I understand from Canada BC is to come into contact with US border agency. Trace is a means to do that
[2024-01-23T18:44:12.616Z]	<nis>	So it does have a US connotation
[2024-01-23T18:44:17.000Z]	<nis>	+1
[2024-01-23T18:44:35.678Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yes, there is a connotation. US govt contracts
[2024-01-23T18:44:50.952Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2024-01-23T18:45:02.569Z]	<nis>	However, w3c ccg is not able to make anything binding for the US, speak on behalf or anything
[2024-01-23T18:45:30.090Z]	<nis>	The intention is to make a broader interoperability standard
[2024-01-23T18:45:46.423Z]	<nis>	Patrick: makes sense, there needs to be frameworks to align to
[2024-01-23T18:46:13.790Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: the first paragraph needs to be longer
[2024-01-23T18:46:19.183Z]	<nis>	Nis: yes, it sucks
[2024-01-23T18:46:39.962Z]	<nis>	Let's leave it, I'll fix it up
[2024-01-23T18:46:42.330Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/620
[2024-01-23T18:46:50.127Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: switching to interop
[2024-01-23T18:48:12.294Z]	<nis>	Patrick: the VC API expects the /credentials/issue response to be the verifiable credential
[2024-01-23T18:48:35.262Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: yes, but the issuer tests just test give me the VC directly
[2024-01-23T18:48:54.114Z]	<nis>	Patrick: I know, in interop it expects what the spec says
[2024-01-23T18:49:05.301Z]	<nis>	It is a frustrating situation
[2024-01-23T18:49:24.863Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I think it's straight forward, I think it's a bug on the test suite
[2024-01-23T18:49:42.395Z]	<nis>	Just raise a bug issue, it should be a small fix
[2024-01-23T18:49:51.532Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q-
[2024-01-23T18:49:57.964Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: are there any other deviations you have noticed?
[2024-01-23T18:50:08.478Z]	<nis>	Patrick: signature type on the option, that's all
[2024-01-23T18:50:29.437Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/620/
[2024-01-23T18:50:55.757Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/622/files
[2024-01-23T18:51:26.604Z]	<nis>	Ted: all good
[2024-01-23T18:52:01.888Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: should we keep running or revisit v1 issues
[2024-01-23T18:52:07.918Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	+1 to finish initial tagging of all issues before we go back over those already tagged
[2024-01-23T18:52:19.225Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/564
[2024-01-23T18:52:30.887Z]	<nis>	Ted: 564 got closed - unintentionally
[2024-01-23T18:54:52.092Z]	<nis>	Nis: I could delete sizerOrAmount due to OG and Agri
[2024-01-23T18:55:53.628Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we need that to express e.g. 7 barrels of oil
[2024-01-23T18:56:12.639Z]	<nis>	Generic enough to be used on many different types of products
[2024-01-23T18:56:20.220Z]	<nis>	Any ideas on how to do that?
[2024-01-23T18:57:46.321Z]	<nis>	Potentially replace sizeOrAmount with quantity
[2024-01-23T18:58:28.755Z]	<nis>	Nis: quantity belongs on line item
[2024-01-23T18:59:02.356Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: but you can have 7 barrels without being quantity 7
[2024-01-23T18:59:12.722Z]	<nis>	Ted: we are trying to make everything all at once
[2024-01-23T18:59:23.255Z]	<nis>	That's zero modelling
[2024-01-23T18:59:32.942Z]	<nis>	Throw all attributes against the wall
[2024-01-23T19:00:12.697Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: proposal: remove sizeOrAmount, replace with quantity
[2024-01-23T19:00:25.191Z]	<nis>	EPCIS solves this with a generic quantity element
[2024-01-23T19:01:15.062Z]	<nis>	Nis: quantity is on line items
[2024-01-23T19:01:25.835Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: each batch is its own distinct product
[2024-01-23T19:01:45.549Z]	<nis>	76000 barrels of oil being put in a pipeline
[2024-01-23T19:02:34.927Z]	<nis>	The Batch is unique
[2024-01-23T19:02:43.673Z]	<nis>	Just volume might work
[2024-01-23T19:03:32.736Z]	<nis>	Ted: on agri it will be a silo
[2024-01-23T19:03:54.522Z]	<nis>	This is very specific and very generic product specification
[2024-01-23T19:04:33.352Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: it might be because this is the only one we have
[2024-01-23T19:05:06.740Z]	<nis>	Ted: are we working from any kind of paper form, or are we just making it up?
[2024-01-23T19:05:18.336Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: 50/50 on OG
[2024-01-23T19:05:39.771Z]	<nis>	Chris: will ping Russel
[2024-01-23T19:07:37.806Z]	<nis>	Nis: consider line items
[2024-01-23T19:08:29.125Z]	<nis>	Ted: product has properties, volume could be measured in gallons - and you specify the type you are measuring in
[2024-01-23T19:09:03.459Z]	<nis>	Batch is the container holding the product you are getting
[2024-01-23T19:09:26.230Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: because its a fluid, batch is always used
[2024-01-23T19:10:12.610Z]	<nis>	Strawberrys don't change is the batch changes. For oil they do.
[2024-01-23T19:10:39.299Z]	<nis>	Ted: batch sounds like "lot". That's because strawberrys are not fluid
[2024-01-23T19:11:14.856Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: this specific collection of barrel
[2024-01-23T19:11:31.675Z]	<nis>	We could remove volume from generic to crudeOil type
[2024-01-23T19:13:04.037Z]	<nis>	Nis: you need an abstract class for the product
[2024-01-23T19:13:13.532Z]	<nis>	Ted: volume matters
[2024-01-23T19:14:44.966Z]	<nis>	Nis: separate type of product from traded volume
[2024-01-23T19:15:07.422Z]	<nis>	Ted: the batch is the product
[2024-01-23T19:15:49.742Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Not straight forward because they can be forwarded. They can't be fungable
[2024-01-23T19:16:04.164Z]	<nis>	Ted: of course it can, siphon off a gallon
[2024-01-23T19:16:12.455Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: but then it's a new batch
[2024-01-23T19:17:20.905Z]	<nis>	Nis: don't you need the batch class
[2024-01-23T19:17:39.236Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: that's OGproduct
[2024-01-23T19:18:02.953Z]	<nis>	Ted: it's broken, generic has no size or volume. Product is "Liquid x".
[2024-01-23T19:18:47.106Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Industry works with crude oil product. It defines a number of properties on top of product.
[2024-01-23T19:19:59.229Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I will try that, de-assigning Nis, assigning Mahmoud and Russell
[2024-01-23T19:21:28.732Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/379
[2024-01-23T19:21:52.950Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/273
[2024-01-23T19:22:46.429Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/739
[2024-01-23T19:23:01.271Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/385
[2024-01-23T19:23:38.621Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/717
[2024-01-23T19:24:07.326Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/406
[2024-01-23T19:26:11.383Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/827
[2024-01-23T19:27:37.521Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: a functioning OAS should be v1
[2024-01-23T19:27:47.991Z]	<nis>	Volunteers to fix this?
[2024-01-23T19:28:01.495Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/865
[2024-01-23T19:28:33.746Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/866
[2024-01-23T19:29:57.099Z]	<nis>	Thank you everyone
