Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and russell_h_(mesur.io) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-03-19-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-03-19-traceability/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-03-19.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2024-03-19

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Mar&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and russell_h_(mesur.io)
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Chris Abernethy, Russell H (mesur.io), TallTed // 
  Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Mahmoud Alkhraishi, 
  Guilherme, Patrick St-Louis, Ted Thibodeau

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
russell_h_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/628
<mahmoud> i did
<mahmoud> can you not hear me
<mahmoud> hold for a sec
Nis Jespersen :  Interop
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  On index.html there's a lot of things being 
  removed, like encryption key management. I don't believe we 
  received reqs these should be removed, says removing them for 
  clutter. I feel these are important
Nis Jespersen :  Does it belong in this spec?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Spec about, would you like to be able to 
  work to us, send data to us. like, if you don't use tls it won't 
  work, we won't accept your stuff. can't test for encryption at 
  rest, but we can rec you do that. so yes, not hard req, but good 
  idea to keep in actual spec
Nis Jespersen :  Fair. any other opinions?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Diff question. Recall someone mentioning, 
  every time you have a must statement you should test it.
Ted Thibodeau:  Correct I think
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Is a must right now in spec. Feel that that 
  should stay in, but no hard statement saying "if it's must, must 
  be testable"
Nis Jespersen :  That aside, why is storage part of protocol?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Can ay encryption at rest maybe not part, 
  but encryption in transit yes definitely.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'd rather we keep these in. disaster 
  recovery stuff maybe not, not actually telling you how to do it, 
  so that should go. threat model, maybe should stay, 
  non-normative, tiny, actually...
Patrick St-Louis:  Q on reqs, a lot of items noted post 1.0 
  release, how update reqs?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Don't think they mention 1.0
Patrick St-Louis:  Want to understand, how will the test suite 
  evolve along with reqs, if reqs come before test suites, are we 
  expecting change in suites soon enough?
Ted Thibodeau:  Seems odd making substantial alterations to 
  conform to reqs some of us can't see
Nis Jespersen :  Was going to ask, mavennet, do you know if reqs 
  available online?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Not publicly available. Patrick it's a 
  direction question. We have existing tests, if new reqs come in, 
  what happens to existing tests?
Patrick St-Louis:  Makes sense, have conformance and interop test 
  suites. conformance do test data model with neg tests, but most 
  important part interop, can cred issued by some org be verified 
  by another org. If conformant against self good to know, but 
  these sorts of tests outside data model good to know.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Clarifying, nis pointed out where in reqs 
  we've said 2.0.
Ted Thibodeau:  How make what we have conform with secret reqs, 
  though?
Nis Jespersen :  Have 3 companies on call contracted with gov, 
  building for gov. not a secret, just not been shared publicly. 
  there are earlier drafts
Ted Thibodeau:  Work of ccg is entirely outside bounds of cbp, 
  ridiculously secret cohort project. thing is semipublic, needs to 
  become public or not be banging on ccg.
<nis> Reminder I need to drop in 2 mins
Patrick St-Louis:  In beginning, comment, trace perceived as us 
  way of doing things. answer was that this is more global. but 
  when reqs come from cbp, reinforces that this is us system.
Nis Jespersen :  Acknowledgement, says, no secret this is for us 
  gov
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/draft/#acknowledgements
<nis> ^Patrick
Nis Jespersen : +1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  While they've funded us to work on this, 
  doesn't mean they have any control over this work. ppl on call 
  have say, "don't like these things don't include them"
Nis Jespersen :  Need to drop, hope you can stay on call
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Great, taking lead
Patrick St-Louis:  As you get more actors to impose changes, on 
  this pr been open two weeks. I have no problem with content, it's 
  just to put these in renqs week, week and a half, seems abrupt. 
  incl as "this is where we're going, next step",  but keep test 
  suites as are now. For me it's how quickly these came into play
Ted Thibodeau:  Starting point, change title of pr to, reflect 
  more of functional justification. cbp not mentioned in 
  acknowledgements. should not be black box from which mysterious 
  deletion of chunk of stuff that was work. don't have a problem 
  removing what's in this pr.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Reqs only in mandatory to implement html 
  file. everything else is nis cleaning up spec in general. two 
  separate things
Ted Thibodeau:  Should be two PRs then. good
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Could I walk through reqs 1 by 1? I agree 
  with you, will update pr name and split into two PRs. One, 
  updates to clean up existing pieces, one "requirements". Does 
  that sound fair?
Ted Thibodeau:  That'll help
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes. and these are what we're already doing, 
  just says "use latest version of it". use latest jose/cose, use 
  statuslist. these reqs are just, use latest version of publicly 
  available drafts as your baseline.
Patrick St-Louis:  Yeah. think there should be section on 
  backwards compatibility. 
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That was nis. just says "we're considering 
  diff drafts, waiting til mature, once its mature we'll choose 
  one". was wishy washy statement
Patrick St-Louis:  Sd has a place I think, removing it entirely, 
  think there should be a section even if just says "under eval"
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Should be non-normative, for info only, with 
  you.
Ted Thibodeau:  Why not piped through pr preview?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think broken for us
Patrick St-Louis:  Looking at privacy considerations
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah, lot of work to be done, I'm with you. 
  nis's first instinct. I'll split it into two PRs, one that 
  outlines "we need to sync to latest version".
Patrick St-Louis:  Three prs, selective disclosure in own pr? I 
  can make an issue for sd stuff.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Sure
Ted Thibodeau:  Looking at what's in this pr. two substantial 
  change suggestions, both in reqs list and reference section 
  above. I believe this update was intended to peg interop spec to 
  specific versions of other spec.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  These should be applied, make sense
Ted Thibodeau:  Marked as resolved
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Says its outdated, when I un-resolved it. 
  think it's a github thing.
Ted Thibodeau:  Yeah github, when click on commit doesn't show 
  changes happened, file does
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So, fork off of this pr, revert changes on 
  cleanups, keep rest of changes to reqs, discuss those on merits 1 
  by 1, remove references to cbp, new pr that doesn't touch 
  selective disclosure, then patrick open third pr to clean up sd
Patrick St-Louis:  Sure, issue then pr linked to it
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/629
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Next up 629, by patrick, change collection 
  link to use SL2021 collection
Patrick St-Louis:  Confused by orie's comments. in interop & 
  conformance there's tests for both. but github actions only tests 
  2020, not 2021. I'd like to drop support for R2020. According to 
  orie, cred status update wouldn't work.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  As general idea, previous pr says "use 
  2021". we've all wanted that. orie's saying "until that's merged 
  don't test for 2021". I don't agree
Patrick St-Louis:  Don't understand why cbp status update has to 
  do with this
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Nowhere in spec says use status list 2021
Patrick St-Louis:  Yes, linked to text in spec
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  K, we should do that then
Patrick St-Louis:  Not sure what orie refers to.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  You've run this test?
Patrick St-Louis:  Yes, against self
<tallted> the place where the Status List 2021 requirement is: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/draft/#data-integrity-proof-suites
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  With you, don't see issue
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So I would't merge on top of his objections, 
  ask him to clarify. ted put link in chat to where says sl2021 is 
  req in spec, ask him to clarify why wouldn't.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/630
Patrick St-Louis:  Could we also remove r2020 tests?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I don't believe we have anywhere in spec 
  where says we must use 2020. so sure, can remove that
Ted Thibodeau: +1
Patrick St-Louis:  Alright, will do that
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/630
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Next, 630, remove negative tests for context 
  object items
Patrick St-Louis:  If you use 1.1 spec req you use @vocab for 
  non-cred issuer attributes. just one test, wondering if there for 
  specific reason
Chris Abernethy:  To clarify, intention of test was not about 
  @vocab, it was just a convenient way to test objects
Patrick St-Louis:  Another issue, pyld lib, won't go fetch @vocab 
  in existing context to apply to vc
Chris Abernethy:  My comments only for clarification, but if we 
  want to remove test must modify schema
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So saying as a concrete change request. 
  these tests are checking schema, if you want to change update 
  schema then test
Chris Abernethy:  Correct, if remove tests no longer testing 
  against schema
