[2023-04-24T14:46:18.203Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2023-04-24T14:58:19.714Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2023-04-24T14:58:33.858Z]	<Morgan_Lemmer_Webber>	present+
[2023-04-24T14:59:35.573Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2023Apr/0006.html
[2023-04-24T14:59:47.321Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	chair: Kerri_Lemoie
[2023-04-24T14:59:53.952Z]	<Brooke_Lipsitz>	present+
[2023-04-24T14:59:58.708Z]	<Eric_Sembrat>	present+
[2023-04-24T14:59:58.945Z]	<Roger_Davies>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:00:24.497Z]	<Jeff_O_-_HumanOS>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:00:30.412Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:00:32.822Z]	<Andy_Griebel>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:00:40.178Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:01:27.710Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Hello all - we'll get started in a couple of minutes
[2023-04-24T15:01:34.141Z]	<Joey>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:01:34.685Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:01:39.727Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:02:50.321Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:02:56.037Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:03:16.485Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-04-24T15:03:16.485Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2023-04-24T15:03:54.880Z]	<Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:03:57.974Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey welcome to the Monday April 24th verifiable verify the credentials for Education task force today I would like to welcome Brooke Brooke I'm sorry I'm and then we actually said your last name I'm sorry Brooke lipsitz I saying that correctly brick is a here from ASU the learning that and trusted Learning Network so she's going to tell us about the work that they've been doing.
[2023-04-24T15:03:58.371Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  doing there.
[2023-04-24T15:04:06.081Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:04:08.937Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:04:08.993Z]	<Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:04:11.331Z]	<Kimberly_Linson>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:04:13.676Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:04:16.115Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: IP Note
[2023-04-24T15:04:17.590Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Let me first so go through our proposed agenda and then we will get going let brick take it from there so our first thing is about IP notes if you've been on these calls before you have a you've heard this.
[2023-04-24T15:04:43.757Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: So any any contributions to the specifications at w3c require membership and full IP our agreements to be signed this is open Community College so it's not required to attend these calls but if you intend to do some some more work that is something that you should look into secondly for call notes Here in the chat.
[2023-04-24T15:04:45.083Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: Call Notes
[2023-04-24T15:04:55.327Z]	<Nate_Otto_(he/him)>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:05:11.410Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: So all of the minutes for these calls and audio recording and actually also a video recording of anybody requested are all take place for this whole call and so note that we do that so that those who can't attend the call even those who are here and want to reference it later I'm have it available to them in a public setting.
[2023-04-24T15:05:12.687Z]	<Sheryl_Grant>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:05:28.688Z]	<Taylor_(LEF)>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:05:34.277Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2023-04-24T15:05:36.873Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2023-04-24T15:05:41.435Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: So we used it see here on the left for our chat I think some folks might use IRC but primarily we used to see here and we use a cue system to to have conversations so if you like to kill yourself you can either hit the hand signal and the bottom low or hand dashboard of Duty or you could type key + to raise your hand or q- treasure hand just like I did in the chap.
[2023-04-24T15:05:50.974Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay what do we start with introductions and reintroductions.
[2023-04-24T15:05:56.558Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Since you are new today could I ask you to introduce yourself.
[2023-04-24T15:06:00.211Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2023-04-24T15:06:05.873Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:06:11.079Z]	<Taylor_(LEF)>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:06:28.498Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Absolutely I'm Brooke lipsitz I'm the product manager of the trusted learner network with ASU Enterprise technology I work closely with Kate you have a Keeney who I'm sure you've seen before in this space and also partner with third-party developers and some of the people that are on the call and our architecture and advisory committee so we have a lot of collaboration in the space.
[2023-04-24T15:06:28.803Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  and without the help of.
[2023-04-24T15:06:38.573Z]	<stuartf>	IRC and matrix.org chat are bridged into the Jitsi chat
[2023-04-24T15:06:43.573Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Keep people in their insights we probably would not be at the stage of development were currently at and happy to be here and show you the work that we've done over the last 10 months or so.
[2023-04-24T15:06:52.371Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Awesome thank you brick anybody else that's new to the call today or somebody who like to reintroduce themselves before we get going.
[2023-04-24T15:06:55.291Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:07:03.364Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: When you see a cube minus in the chat that is the checking to see if anybody is it like you.
[2023-04-24T15:07:16.028Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topics: Announcements & Reminders
[2023-04-24T15:07:23.047Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Does anybody have any announcements or reminders that I'd like to tell the community about if so you can give yourselves up right now to do that.
[2023-04-24T15:07:42.610Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Upcoming CCG Meetings & Events: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2023-04-24T15:07:47.203Z]	<Brooke_Lipsitz>	2023 TLN Unconference is 5/18! We'd love to have all of you join us in Phoenix!
[2023-04-24T15:07:59.325Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:08:00.698Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Hey I also do not have any announcements or reminders although I could post this link here in case you want to know what is going on at the ccg this is where announcements are typically made and also in the mailing list this week was outside last week was the internet identity workshop and I suspect we'll start hearing some more about what happened there I'm excited to learn about that.
[2023-04-24T15:08:18.703Z]	<David_Baumgartner@smartEduWallet>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:08:35.133Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Okay then with that why don't we start with our main topic and brick thank you for being here again today I love you I have the pleasure of working with brick and others on this call on the architecture advisory committee and I really have a soft spot in my heart for this project I think they're doing some really great interesting work and thinking about verifiable credentials in a very different way from a network approach and I think I you'll find her what.
[2023-04-24T15:08:35.665Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie:  they're doing really interesting brick once you take it from here.
[2023-04-24T15:08:40.694Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: We can when you're done we can see if there any questions how about that.
[2023-04-24T15:08:50.430Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Okay great let me just figure out that I want to make sure I can share my screen.
[2023-04-24T15:08:50.699Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: Main Topic: Brooke Lipitz from ASU Trusted Learner Network (TLN)
[2023-04-24T15:08:55.538Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Can everyone see my screen.
[2023-04-24T15:09:27.477Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: So I'm going to be running you through our lean tln interface I'm trying to do less and less slides the more I present just because I noticed there tends to be a difference so I figure I might as well just jump straight in so we've just rounded out our phase one development for the tln so less than a year ago we didn't have even the architecture in place.
[2023-04-24T15:09:27.813Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  and that was something that we worked with our.
[2023-04-24T15:09:58.376Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Visors during our 2022 tln on conference on some of the people on the call were actually a part of that meeting so shout out to Stuart and Roger Davies as well so we've really come a long way considering we had essentially nothing in place to then having a blueprint developing an alpha Tech stack establishing governance you.
[2023-04-24T15:10:29.541Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Events like plugfest to to help guide some of our early design decisions and considerations and now we're at this place to where we're also having another development company help us can take into consideration institutional few and development the what I'm going to show you today is the learner view of the tln or and again this is still early development so I'm sure much of this might change over time.
[2023-04-24T15:10:29.900Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  I'm but just.
[2023-04-24T15:10:44.821Z]	<Roger_Davies>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:11:00.805Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:11:00.865Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: So the Crux of what we're doing essentially but all of this even though we're using certain Technologies and semantic standards all this is really about simplifying access to namely course credentials degree credentials that Learners have learned throughout their career our angle into this with regard to credit Mobility.
[2023-04-24T15:11:33.106Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Fostering movement and reducing friction is that you know there's this firm belief that this is a lifelong journey and the more we can do to remove barriers and in the Learner Journey the better it is for obviously the learner as well as the institution and facilitating this movement it's not just a transcript for you that can hold students back but even leans.
[2023-04-24T15:11:33.368Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  she added with an account so we've.
[2023-04-24T15:12:05.831Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Trying to Envision other ways to essentially give Learners access to the records that they've learned ideally from a single source to be able to share out and again he's that movement regardless of what their status is at a university financially so to speak verifiable credentials are one way of working around that in the space so that's a big part of why we've been talking with out with all of you throughout.
[2023-04-24T15:12:06.241Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  out four different considerations.
[2023-04-24T15:12:17.427Z]	<Jake_Hirsch-Allen>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:12:30.093Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:12:39.775Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: So where we're at today is we have a lien UI and a back end for this and for calls in particular to be made to the tln so we've just envisioned what it would look like for a learner to manage their credentials and actually based on some of what we've experienced there's still some design considerations that we are taking into consideration for the beginning stages of this because when we initially set this up it was designed to work.
[2023-04-24T15:12:40.310Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  work with a wallet so you'd come and bring your own wallet and that.
[2023-04-24T15:13:11.360Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Be utilizing for identification purposes however that's proven to have certain barriers in and of itself and so what are you discussing is ways to make that easier assuming that you know having to come with another Identity or another set of credentials might be a barrier for a portion of the Learners that would be using this platform so again there there's always something in progress that we have to consider or pivot to make a change for.
[2023-04-24T15:13:44.527Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Jin the tln right now and seeing a learner coming to use the service we expect it to be very simple so this is a place that more often than not you'll probably be guided to you by another application that needs verification of your records and the idea would be a learner would be coming to the talent to be able to access credentials from multiple institutions in one single place in this particular view I have two institutions.
[2023-04-24T15:13:44.953Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  I have ASU and also namely.
[2023-04-24T15:14:15.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Beta Community College where I've earned credentials in the particular use case example that I give I talked about how I might want to take an internship in DC and so there's relevant coursework that they need to see in order to ensure that I've met their eligibility criteria namely that I've earned an associate's degree and then I have some relevant history classes to prove that I'm on that track for example so selecting.
[2023-04-24T15:14:15.958Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  credentials in the TL.
[2023-04-24T15:14:32.389Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: I don't have to share everything I have the option to bundle my credentials for sharing or expert them directly to a wallet so if I created a bundle specifically for DC internship.
[2023-04-24T15:15:04.073Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: I can do just that and again it gives me the ability to change how I share or who I share with or I can even just delete the bundle that I have in place so if in this case I want to add gamma Tech University to institutions that I'm sharing this with I can do that as well.
[2023-04-24T15:15:35.649Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: The inferior the ideal would be to have multiple institutions participating in the tln already available to the learner to help make this process easier but that is something that we're brainstorming and figuring out how best to draw in various institutions for this purpose so that's a big part of this as well to Learners would have the ability to change their.
[2023-04-24T15:15:36.053Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  consent at any.
[2023-04-24T15:16:00.203Z]	<Nate_Otto_(he/him)>	q+ for when questions come up: How is the list of institutions one can share with generated? What happens when a learner chooses some of the institutions in the list?
[2023-04-24T15:16:08.917Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Again this is very learner Centric learner first that we're designing and developing for and we also have a companying services that we plan for constituents of the tln to work with namely another credit Mobility tool that we have in place which is interactive degree planner that's currently in development right now but the idea is that a learner could share credentials that they've earned to.
[2023-04-24T15:16:09.280Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  institutions to help them plan.
[2023-04-24T15:16:13.679Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Future directory with regards to earning a degree.
[2023-04-24T15:16:26.872Z]	<TimG>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:16:45.490Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: This is all still early stages so to speak and that's the bulk of what I have to show off from a demo perspective we have Hi-Fi mock-ups that we're working on for our institutional development but that is that development likely won't be ready until middle of June to be able to show off so we're really excited about that.
[2023-04-24T15:16:45.844Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  that as well.
[2023-04-24T15:17:03.437Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: The yeah the the demo itself of the Chillin is fairly simplistic Roger Stewart if there's anything that you would like to add based on the work you've done on the a AC to speak to some of this by all means.
[2023-04-24T15:17:09.092Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	What does 'bundling' mean vs. export to a wallet?  The latter seems self-explanatory pushing credentials to a wallet for sending from there, I assume.
[2023-04-24T15:17:14.579Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Stuart speaking
[2023-04-24T15:17:20.408Z]	<Transcriber>	Stuart_Freeman: Sure I think this is a really interesting and cool project and obviously has a lot of.
[2023-04-24T15:17:43.348Z]	<Transcriber>	Stuart_Freeman: Good cutting from it with the the ability for the user to sort of be self Sovereign I think the challenge that we're going to face is you know adoption getting people at the institutions to understand.
[2023-04-24T15:17:51.593Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:17:53.931Z]	<Transcriber>	Stuart_Freeman: Now this is actually still you know private until the user opens things up.
[2023-04-24T15:18:00.925Z]	<Transcriber>	Stuart_Freeman: And just yeah the the ability to.
[2023-04-24T15:18:10.156Z]	<Transcriber>	Stuart_Freeman: Run their own infrastructure versus having a contract from want to do it and how we get everyone interoperable I think that's the.
[2023-04-24T15:18:13.342Z]	<Transcriber>	Stuart_Freeman: Going forward at this point.
[2023-04-24T15:18:15.150Z]	<Roger_Davies>	Phil, the bundling allows for curation inside the TLN without having to pull and mediate through a wallet (when all participants are members).
[2023-04-24T15:18:28.526Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Will call on you next, @nate
[2023-04-24T15:18:43.916Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: And Phil I saw your question about bundling bundling is another way of grouping credential so having the ability to pick and choose and then create a bundle oh you know or if in the case you're not using a wallet to be able to export that grouping of credentials in this space so essentially bundling could be thought of as creating unique.
[2023-04-24T15:18:44.367Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  comprehensive learner records that.
[2023-04-24T15:18:51.208Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: It was a collection of records that you're sharing in a cluster so to speak I don't know if that helps.
[2023-04-24T15:18:57.570Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	As a VP or ?
[2023-04-24T15:19:01.236Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Explain the usage of the bundling feature not but also open to any feedback on that as well too.
[2023-04-24T15:19:06.613Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Is the VC is that what you're asking Phil.
[2023-04-24T15:19:07.431Z]	<Nate_Otto_(he/him)>	So is the bundle a ClrCredential compliant with CLR 2.0?
[2023-04-24T15:19:10.196Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): No as a verifiable presentation as opposed to a VC.
[2023-04-24T15:19:17.036Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: That's a great question.
[2023-04-24T15:19:21.616Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I don't think that's been figured out yet.
[2023-04-24T15:19:35.513Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): So is the intention that this will be a bundle that is sent via email from the platform or it's just not clear yet.
[2023-04-24T15:19:43.701Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: That yeah that's not clear yet either how do we how do we send this to a third party if not through a wallet so that's something we still need to consider as well too.
[2023-04-24T15:19:57.696Z]	<Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com>	q+
[2023-04-24T15:19:59.808Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	the way it looked to me, the bundle is just a convenience inside the platform
[2023-04-24T15:20:02.708Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: We know we can issue is VCS we have that capacity but again it is a good question as far as how are we exporting this and to into where if it's outside of the TL on.
[2023-04-24T15:20:09.962Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:20:11.326Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I'm going to call Arnie made out of who has a question about about the universities that are participating Nate you have the floor.
[2023-04-24T15:20:20.340Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Nate_Otto_(he/him)
[2023-04-24T15:20:29.630Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	@Deb that's what I inferred by wanted more clarity
[2023-04-24T15:20:31.593Z]	<Naomi>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:20:35.617Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him): Thanks looks exciting to see this application coming here I had a question about the sharing two institutions screen that you briefly showed wondering how the institutions get placed into that list of options that someone could share to and then what actually happens when you select to share to a particular Institution.
[2023-04-24T15:21:02.905Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: So ideally these are institutions that want to be a part of the tln they've been vetted we've determined that they met some degree of issuance quality there's been some Wedding by the governing body so this is still in Pilot as well too is figuring out what that process looks like as far as options for sharing learner would be able to just grant TL.
[2023-04-24T15:21:03.324Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  then access in.
[2023-04-24T15:21:04.675Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	q+
[2023-04-24T15:21:36.787Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Any institution on the teal on could have access to their credentials also change specifically to have select institutions access their credentials like maybe if I am only interested in sharing between Arizona State and beta Community College and the gamma Tech is opposed to UT Austin and Georgia Tech I want to want to manage those permissions differently or being able to set them so we're their private.
[2023-04-24T15:21:37.211Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  to me then it's not discoverable to any.
[2023-04-24T15:21:58.218Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: In the tln except for the issuing institution I should say so the by default if an institution is issued credits to then they do have access to the credentials they've issued to you but they wouldn't be able to see other credentials on the network associated with you without your there your explicit permission.
[2023-04-24T15:22:15.550Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him): So it sounds like it's a different user who is authenticated to the same domain who then gets to see the thing is there any transfer of data from one instance of an application to outside of the application to another one that was part of this sharing.
[2023-04-24T15:22:40.214Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: There could be through my services and so and just the key would be notifying the learner that when you're when you start to share outside of the tln that access could be persistent so just being mindful of that even with interactive degree planner for example you know once you're sharing outside of the network.
[2023-04-24T15:23:07.936Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:23:09.217Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Bearing in mind there's less control over what you share it because again each application you share with is going to have their own terms of services on how they utilize their data so I think the key for us is just making sure that we're very clear on to the learner or the end-user how their data could be used if we have a designated third-party application and place that they could share out too.
[2023-04-24T15:23:10.709Z]	<Phil_Barker>	q+ to say a little about PESC JSON Transcript work.
[2023-04-24T15:23:22.359Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him): Cool thanks for the info just since I have to have the mic one more follow-up do you have any like API documentation or a description of what this connection to these other services entails.
[2023-04-24T15:23:46.978Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: That's a great question I could follow up with my developer I don't I don't know that they have any explicit documentation but that's something that we should probably be making available shortly for people to reference especially if we plan to utilize other applications in the future it's something that we definitely need to have in place if we don't currently but I'll check with my developer to see if we have anything on our GitHub for example.
[2023-04-24T15:23:54.609Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you Nick my hash from pocket Krabs you have the floor.
[2023-04-24T15:23:56.442Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com
[2023-04-24T15:24:23.220Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Thank you very nice to see right here I'm an alumnus of ASU so I'm excited someday too maybe even retrieve my 30-year old records through this method so true it is wonderful just had a couple of questions first one is I presume this is conformant to open badges 3.0 is that a correct statement.
[2023-04-24T15:24:23.556Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com:  in terms of standards as.
[2023-04-24T15:24:29.596Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: All verifiable credential standards that you use.
[2023-04-24T15:24:58.163Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Yes well for plugfest to we had to aligned the open badge standard but that is something that we want to commit to as well as to maintaining that data is still a big part of this so we're figuring out is how data is ingested and also shared because not just open badge but we also want to be able to export into other formats as well too and so that's a big.
[2023-04-24T15:24:58.672Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  big part of this but yes opened by open badge.
[2023-04-24T15:25:09.601Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Those formats that we plan to have criteria shared in that format.
[2023-04-24T15:25:40.429Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: So far another question kind of related is how do you identify the subject today you know so this is kind of like you said and you know it's not like you know the classic example that you see where somebody comes in with their wallet and they can give you a did and so on and so forth so you would have to identify the subject to the or the student here right how do you identify this tool subject within the.
[2023-04-24T15:25:41.114Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com:  the verifiable credential in this in this.
[2023-04-24T15:25:42.114Z]	<Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket>	q+
[2023-04-24T15:25:43.100Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Doing right now.
[2023-04-24T15:26:14.559Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: So it's interesting that you say that because we actually had it set up to do that using a wallet and a did for for the demo example that I have I was using the various wallet specifically however just by using and again this varus is great so it's nothing on the various wallet but the barriers in demoing if they're if something's going wrong with the varus wallet have all indicated that we need to have some other form of.
[2023-04-24T15:26:14.934Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  identity management for a learner to access.
[2023-04-24T15:26:23.237Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:26:48.113Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Because we don't want barriers to accessing your wallet to impact your access to the tln but at the same time there's a difference of opinion on whether or not the teal and should be managing you know their own created accounts for example or something those along those lines so that's something we still have to reconcile so as of this point you can use a did from a wallet to connect and then beyond that like when I validate different.
[2023-04-24T15:26:48.500Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  tutions are ASU it's it's built into.
[2023-04-24T15:27:20.041Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: So so if I if I were to reset this and wanted to connect to Arizona State University and actually prompts me to enter in My ASU credentials because it's connecting and validating that way to be even pull up my Arizona State credentials just really hard to show once it caches that information unfortunately so when connecting the various institutions were hoping to still utilize SSO and oid see but there is something that we still need to reconcile at the out.
[2023-04-24T15:27:20.551Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  outset which is what is.
[2023-04-24T15:27:35.736Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: The main source for someone connecting to the tln which we haven't fully reconciled but we're leaning to the place of someone needs to have another way to connect Beyond a wallet and if so what would that look like.
[2023-04-24T15:27:39.471Z]	<Roger_Davies>	Phil, yes the whole structure is available through signed queries using GraphQL and a couple of other formats (Sparkle, a SQL adjacent query stucture etc).  We haven't formalized the standards yet.  As Brooke indicated we're hoping to support a few output formats transparently (Open Badge 3, CLR 2 etc).
[2023-04-24T15:28:05.590Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Yeah and so that's to connect to tln but what about what's in the verifiable credential itself so if I went in and say downloaded or exported my credential what would it say in the subject field would it give my ASU ID or would it give my email or date of birth or name I was curious how you kind of solve that problem especially in the absence of a wallet right.
[2023-04-24T15:28:06.779Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:28:28.264Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: That's a great question and I don't think we've gotten that far we did just a minimum viable criteria for plugfest to and Carrie can you speak to this with we're any of those criteria in the VC that we issued or what were the four main criteria to issue is an open badge that we needed.
[2023-04-24T15:28:36.477Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:28:43.144Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Right forever plexus to we did I had to be no match 3.0 and basically we were just using a decentralised identifiers to for the identity to keep it pretty simple for breakfast too.
[2023-04-24T15:28:53.059Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: So if we connected with a wallet we could have used that decentralized identifier in the VC okay okay.
[2023-04-24T15:28:57.345Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Yeah that's true.
[2023-04-24T15:28:58.625Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Yeah yeah you used a chappie to your connecting service yep.
[2023-04-24T15:28:59.621Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:29:12.003Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Super just what sorry I just last thing is there any of this work visible as open source or do you plan to do it at some point in the future.
[2023-04-24T15:29:41.142Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: It's were using all open source standards but yeah I mean ideally at a certain point we would like to have it available especially because we know to a degree degree institutions connecting with the tln are going to need access to relevant materials to do that especially if they're going to have different ways in which they need to manage their data or their networking configurations so as of right now I don't have.
[2023-04-24T15:29:41.688Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  anything publicly.
[2023-04-24T15:29:56.401Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Again that's just based on the stage that we're at since we're still in a prototype stage but as we get further along I'm I'm I'm confident that there will be portions of this that will be publicly available to review.
[2023-04-24T15:30:00.375Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Thank you Brooke and Kay.
[2023-04-24T15:30:02.020Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)
[2023-04-24T15:30:03.491Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you I'd ever heard I'm going to join Jen you have the floor.
[2023-04-24T15:30:32.196Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	s/I'd ever heard I'm going to join Jen you have the floor./Deb Everhart from Credential Engine has the floor/
[2023-04-24T15:30:32.387Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Hi thanks I'm great to see this thank you I think you know your point earlier about adoption is always as always a challenge but I think we can support adoption together in terms of the data structure so if the data structure inside the system and also have a data is moving between systems is using CDL think that will bring in different institutions.
[2023-04-24T15:30:32.670Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  tuitions and even state.
[2023-04-24T15:30:32.764Z]	<Naomi_Szekeres>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:31:03.677Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Have a lot of data already in CTL and make it more useful and the just a comment and then a question about the you know like adding up your credits and sharing them with other institutions I assume that those are currently based on existing articulation agreement so I'll let you comment on that but also just point out that CTL also provides a data structure for transfer.
[2023-04-24T15:31:04.080Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  values so that it.
[2023-04-24T15:31:12.793Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Not only those that are already known to the system but that could be pulled in from other sources in sitio.
[2023-04-24T15:31:27.476Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	CTDL transfer value https://credreg.net/ctdl/handbook#transfervalue
[2023-04-24T15:31:30.091Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Really great feedback and I definitely appreciate that Insight with regard to see TDL interestingly enough this credit calculator feature this was something that our developer generated but it did pose a problem for us and that.
[2023-04-24T15:31:40.736Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:32:02.621Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Institutions measure or determine credits differently so this is probably not going to be a feasible service but what he was trying to show off was how you could utilize the simple Lambda function within the tln to do some of the work for you without having to take data outside of the tln meaning like that might be an option at a future date granted from our perspective that's probably not going to.
[2023-04-24T15:32:03.082Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  see how the tln is going to function.
[2023-04-24T15:32:36.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Primarily because we're not trying to supplant what any other dedicated service could be doing for the learner and especially with more sophistication or taking in consideration articulation agreements being like that's this is not the main purpose of the tln so I appreciate that call out because this this is something that we probably should update because again it's going to be confusing for people who know more in depth about that.
[2023-04-24T15:32:37.016Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  it what's more applicable is probably this Interactive.
[2023-04-24T15:32:53.473Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Enter path but again that's really just focusing on sharing your credentials with the service like interactive degree planner so this is really just giving the ability to share with that service that.
[2023-04-24T15:33:15.376Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Is sophisticated to be able to do that or has those articulation agreements or has a stronger understanding of how FERPA works for example so so if this if this piece threw you off we are aware that this is probably not not going to stay but really good observation and call out for sure.
[2023-04-24T15:33:30.404Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Well certainly all three of these are our valuable services but also all very complex so anything we can do to help normalize the data infrastructure for that were happy to be engaged to just let us know.
[2023-04-24T15:33:32.618Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:33:35.104Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Thank you so much Debbie really appreciate the feedback.
[2023-04-24T15:33:40.668Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Awesome Phil Barker you have the floor.
[2023-04-24T15:33:49.818Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_Barker
[2023-04-24T15:36:26.860Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: I think anything that eases the lift is something that we're interested in I know we've talked about pesky at a certain point as well too oh Roger feel free to speak up specifically regarding this I see your hand raised.
[2023-04-24T15:36:28.974Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Roger_Davies
[2023-04-24T15:36:34.942Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:36:39.236Z]	<Nate_Otto_(he/him)>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:36:56.563Z]	<Transcriber>	Roger_Davies: Yeah so we've actually looked at pesky little bit one of the reasons we've looked at it is because many of the institutional student Information Systems already have some mechanism to support pasch so we thought just like you identified it would be an easy way and easy format for institutions to generate transcript like data into for us to consume that work certainly hasn't been completed that it is one of the things we have.
[2023-04-24T15:36:56.913Z]	<Transcriber>	Roger_Davies:  playing around with a.
[2023-04-24T15:37:03.158Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:38:02.290Z]	<Transcriber>	Roger_Davies: Aspiration of the goal is to make onboarding institutions and their data as streamlined as possible and we're you know we're pursuing a lot of different Avenues to try to make that easier including some you know AI tricks you know there's more than one attempt being made but pass could certainly one of the things we've looked into largely because a couple of the institutions who are participating very actively.
[2023-04-24T15:38:06.162Z]	<Transcriber>	Roger_Davies: Hurting past credentials.
[2023-04-24T15:38:13.420Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-04-24T15:38:17.493Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket
[2023-04-24T15:38:18.087Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you feeling Roger Mariana from ASU pocket you have the floor.
[2023-04-24T15:38:50.203Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Hello thank you hi Brooke I just realized that we were you know kind of in parallel on AC Enterprise technology side of things and I was just curious Brooke to hear your thoughts on CLR format as you talk about bundling and that seems to be one of the use cases and I know I get asked that a lot of whether or not as you walk it will support ov3 nclr and I know you already are supporting of e3 so wanted to ask about CLR.
[2023-04-24T15:38:50.721Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket:  and also about case standards.
[2023-04-24T15:38:55.687Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	are you talking about CLRv2?
[2023-04-24T15:39:05.562Z]	<Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket>	Yes, thanks Phil
[2023-04-24T15:39:21.276Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Yeah ideally we would support CL are some of the logic was once we need once we can guarantee that we're supporting open badge three that essentially paves the way for us to be compatible with CLR but the trickiest part with the data is even just figuring out the best way to map even our own data just how we utilize it and Raj.
[2023-04-24T15:39:21.542Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  your Davies can speak more to.
[2023-04-24T15:39:41.860Z]	<Roger_Davies>	Yeah, Badge 3, CLR 2
[2023-04-24T15:39:47.119Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: To just the goofy nature in which we package our own data for transcripts has unique so it's not just a matter of using PeopleSoft language or Banner it's you know what anticipating how instapage how institutions are using data themselves as well to like how much of a.
[2023-04-24T15:39:57.840Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: How much heavy lifting are we going to have to do upfront with institutions to be able to.
[2023-04-24T15:40:28.508Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Ingest their data for example we're hoping that maybe there are some barriers we can break down at the outset but we also want to make sure that institutions can bring their own data and that's not going to be a problem but in and of itself we have our own as I'm sure you can relate to Mariana with data with pocket as well too it's just it's interesting how we.
[2023-04-24T15:40:29.021Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  are concatenated.
[2023-04-24T15:40:29.350Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2023-04-24T15:40:47.479Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: For example and it looks like it's one particular record that we're pulling from but it might be a few different ones for example so I hope that answered the first part of your question then the second I'm sorry that Mariana the second part of your question was.
[2023-04-24T15:41:15.511Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Just around K standards and yeah I mean it answers it's kind of similar to how we feel but I do think that there is a benefit to eventually driving towards just like we're talking about normalizing all the all the data structures kind of driving towards compatibility with that because the registrar's office at the registrar's admin a crowd has approved still ours for kind of a standard for.
[2023-04-24T15:41:30.789Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Sharing College transfer transcripts so it's feels like an incentive to sink in that direction but yeah they had that question was about the case standards.
[2023-04-24T15:41:48.319Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:41:51.694Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: You know we should probably compare notes about it offline because I'm sure Mariana your team is much more tapped in as far as what Michael Crow is recommending or anticipating I don't I don't know that we've gotten that far to be quite honest so that's something that we definitely should be considering.
[2023-04-24T15:41:58.343Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Happy to definitely talk with you more offline as well to based on what you've learned up until this point.
[2023-04-24T15:42:19.427Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Sure sounds good yeah and I'm just to be clear I don't know for sure if that is being adopted at ASU at the moment I just know that like Tennessee Board of regions and Alabama and bunch of other places have actually started implementing that so you know could that but yeah let's chat.
[2023-04-24T15:42:41.273Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Yeah yeah that would be great you know and some of the design some of what we've built into this design is aspirational in and of itself like we're using rdf and we're making some assumptions about rdf framework and its ability to into it and infer that we haven't really been able to test or prove out yet so that will be interesting to see.
[2023-04-24T15:42:41.730Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  so as we start.
[2023-04-24T15:43:12.847Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Map to different data schemas and seeing how the system starts to recognize new data for example but it is a again a big guess up until we can get to the point where we're actually testing it but data is a big part of this and something that you know we're still trying to get our head around the actual scope for our next release cycle as far as what our goals with regard to data what is achievable.
[2023-04-24T15:43:13.178Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz:  Al and what.
[2023-04-24T15:43:17.791Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Should we be using to help us with this process.
[2023-04-24T15:43:20.385Z]	<Transcriber>	Marianna_Milkis,_ASU_Pocket: Yeah for sure.
[2023-04-24T15:43:21.682Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2023-04-24T15:43:26.092Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Great thank you so long have the floor.
[2023-04-24T15:43:34.683Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	q+
[2023-04-24T15:43:57.329Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): Thanks I just in listening to the conversation it seems like it's probably useful to take a step back and and think through or at least discuss whether that in the data structures that you're talking about are for the purposes of internal processing and manipulation of the data within the network versus external communication and if it's for external communication whether it's to somebody or.
[2023-04-24T15:43:57.844Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1):  ization that has a secure pipe that you can.
[2023-04-24T15:44:30.800Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): Can connect to versus someone that may not have that like an individual alumni or or student where the only other mechanism that you have for somebody like that is to provide the security through the API that you're using to talk to them with so a lot of the seems like you could parse this problem up a bit and and then apply the appropriate methods that are optimized for the eat.
[2023-04-24T15:44:31.314Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1):  each of those three sort of use cases.
[2023-04-24T15:44:46.551Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	for external communication of the meaning of the credentials, include a link in the alignment field to metadata in CTDL in the Registry
[2023-04-24T15:45:04.513Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): The form of the data for transport can be any number of things even in the VC world and wrapped by a VC as and then transported by a secure protocol like jappy here we see a pi or PID c4d for whatever is the most appropriate for the audience you're talking about whereas point-to-point Communications with other institutions is just a whole other thing which is where past can many of the.
[2023-04-24T15:45:04.924Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1):  organizations of that sort have been focused in the past.
[2023-04-24T15:45:09.891Z]	<Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)>	https://credentialengine.org/resources/how-to-align-digital-credentials-with-meaningful-ctdl-data/
[2023-04-24T15:45:17.454Z]	<Transcriber>	Phil_L_(P1): I just think it would be helpful to parse this a little bit and then think about the subsets of in approaches to those that might be useful to you in those contexts thanks.
[2023-04-24T15:45:26.368Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:45:28.674Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Phil thank you so much that's very well put in in thoughtful and definitely something that we need to take into consideration so I really appreciate your feedback on that thank you.
[2023-04-24T15:45:33.978Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: I thank you that you have before.
[2023-04-24T15:45:37.357Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine)
[2023-04-24T15:46:04.287Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Yeah so thanks Phil that's a great tee up and just you know one practical use of the data is is for the metadata that can be shared and to have that bnct DL so I think a really practical use case would be that when these credentials are going to be issued to people for use in a wallet and go outside the system that those credentials.
[2023-04-24T15:46:04.737Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  ever form they take can use in a.
[2023-04-24T15:46:34.178Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:46:35.376Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): I'm meant to link to data that's in CTL in the registry so that there is meaning beyond what is actually limited amount of data that's in the credential package itself so this is a pretty straightforward use case that has immediate value in terms of making the credentials that are issued to people easier to understand.
[2023-04-24T15:46:35.955Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Leveraging linked data for lean transport!
[2023-04-24T15:46:41.554Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: How complex is that to set up with CT DL.
[2023-04-24T15:47:11.493Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Not not at all so like when you showed that list of courses and credentials those are in some sort of structured data because they're structured in your system so either from The Source or from tln you could take the basic even it doesn't even have to be a lot of fields of data but you can even just put that in a spreadsheet it doesn't require an API integration to.
[2023-04-24T15:47:11.842Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  push it to the registry.
[2023-04-24T15:47:45.369Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Then when you issue a credential for any one of those courses or credentials to include in the alignment a link to that data in the registry so when you first set that up the data that the data that's in the registry might be slim but then you can add to it over time so you could have for example very valuable thing is to add the competencies to those credentials and courses and then it can grow over time.
[2023-04-24T15:47:45.994Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  I'm do include transfer value Pathways whatever.
[2023-04-24T15:47:57.143Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): You don't need to get into those more complex use cases to just provide a connection between the credential that's being issued and additional metadata does that make sense.
[2023-04-24T15:47:59.012Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Yeah that makes sense.
[2023-04-24T15:48:04.228Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:48:11.350Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): We're happy we're happy to help with that and I put a link in the chat to a very short overview document on that topic that's applicable for any digital credentials.
[2023-04-24T15:48:16.503Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Yeah thank you Deb really appreciate it.
[2023-04-24T15:48:33.300Z]	<Transcriber>	Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): There's there's a ton of potential here so I'm just really happy to to see what are some of the some of the practical ways to enrich it from very beginning so.
[2023-04-24T15:48:43.975Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2023-04-24T15:48:51.948Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Definitely appreciate and we're open to input across the board to especially because we're still so early in our development so any any ideas or any thoughts anyone wants to share even after the call I'm happy to learn more about so thank you.
[2023-04-24T15:49:06.558Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: It's great thank you everybody does anybody have any other questions or feedback or comments they like to give birth before we close today.
[2023-04-24T15:49:22.331Z]	<Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com>	Thank you Brooke!
[2023-04-24T15:49:25.631Z]	<Taylor_(LEF)>	Feel free to review/use anything from our docs here as well: https://docs.learncard.com/
[2023-04-24T15:49:29.942Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: But thank you so much for presenting this work I know folks have been curious about about what's been going on and it's great to see it and for that for everybody else to see it to you so thank you for being here today and walking us through it all and being open to all the feedback and suggestions that's great.
[2023-04-24T15:49:34.083Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Lipsitz: Thank you very thank you very much and thank you for the opportunity I really appreciate it.
[2023-04-24T15:49:54.327Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Thank you everybody thank you very much for being here I think next week we have an open Agenda so we will bring your topics bring your questions and then also if you are ever interested in presenting your project and the work you're doing just reach out and we'll be happy to get you in the calendar.
[2023-04-24T15:49:57.727Z]	<Transcriber>	Kerri_Lemoie: Everyone have a good week.

