[2021-06-01T20:00:40.179Z]	<manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jun/0000.html
[2021-06-01T20:00:40.179Z]	<manu>	Chair: manu
[2021-06-01T20:00:40.179Z]	<Mike_Varley>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:00:40.180Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:00:43.537Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:00:44.857Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:00:46.265Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:02:08.295Z]	<bblfish>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:02:41.496Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:03:04.608Z]	<Andreas_Freund>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:03:12.853Z]	<Sanuja,_Diwala>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:04:39.499Z]	<manu>	scribe: Aaron_Coburn
[2021-06-01T20:04:43.323Z]	<Brent_Shambauh>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:05:11.192Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:05:39.154Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: welcome to the weekly HTTP API call. This is the new time for the call
[2021-06-01T20:05:56.966Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... today's agenda: continuation of authZ discussion
[2021-06-01T20:06:10.542Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... possibly some preliminary descisions if there is consensus
[2021-06-01T20:06:18.757Z]	<TallTed>	confirming -- delete repeating Thursday 3pm ET, effective this week?
[2021-06-01T20:06:21.791Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:06:25.750Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... are there any updates to the agenda?
[2021-06-01T20:05:39.154Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	Topic: Use Cases Update
[2021-06-01T20:06:39.501Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	schuh: update on use cases document
[2021-06-01T20:06:48.929Z]	<Brent_Shambauh>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:06:58.257Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... the new date is june 14, two weeks from today
[2021-06-01T20:07:16.630Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	Deadline for new use cases: June 15
[2021-06-01T20:07:32.856Z]	<TallTed>	s/june 14/june 15/
[2021-06-01T20:07:36.618Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-06-01T20:07:38.495Z]	<manu>	ack Eric
[2021-06-01T20:07:41.269Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... more use cases have been added
[2021-06-01T20:07:56.006Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... many are single-sentence, so we are looking forward to expanding those
[2021-06-01T20:08:31.223Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	juan: we have been leaving comments on some longer use cases
[2021-06-01T20:08:37.470Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... with clarifying questions
[2021-06-01T20:09:09.243Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: please add more if you have interesting use cases
[2021-06-01T20:09:18.043Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... any other status updates?
[2021-06-01T20:09:29.299Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:09:35.916Z]	<manu>	ack Juan
[2021-06-01T20:10:10.879Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	juan: one of Mike's use case: he already answered a clarifying question; it might be good to walk through one of his use cases at the end (Trust Agent)
[2021-06-01T20:10:20.327Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... whether the trust agent is an api detail
[2021-06-01T20:10:41.179Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: any other use cases for the agenda?
[2021-06-01T20:10:44.034Z]	<manu>	Topic: Authorization Part Deux
[2021-06-01T20:10:52.491Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... if not we will get started with Authorization
[2021-06-01T20:11:04.677Z]	<Mike_Varley>	+1 to tackle the Trust Agent use case if there is time and determine if it is in scope.
[2021-06-01T20:11:14.427Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... to summarize last call: what is in scope / out of scope
[2021-06-01T20:11:31.580Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... don't put future authZ schemes out of scope (GNAP/ZCAP/etc)
[2021-06-01T20:11:52.388Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... one suggestion to put such things as GNAP out of scope initially
[2021-06-01T20:12:05.321Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... one suggestion to focus on OAuth2
[2021-06-01T20:12:18.671Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... today: see if we can get to a proposal
[2021-06-01T20:12:24.242Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+ to ask about delegation
[2021-06-01T20:12:37.244Z]	<Mike_Varley>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:12:44.034Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... is this summary accurate?
[2021-06-01T20:12:44.596Z]	<manu>	ack adrian
[2021-06-01T20:13:03.723Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	agropper: OAuth2 is about authorization but not delegation
[2021-06-01T20:13:12.573Z]	<manu>	q+ to note delegation in scope or not?
[2021-06-01T20:13:17.858Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... how do we determine how delegation is in scope/out of scope
[2021-06-01T20:13:31.450Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... esp. w/r/t self-soverign
[2021-06-01T20:13:38.271Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... do we need to include UMA?
[2021-06-01T20:13:44.805Z]	<manu>	ack Mike
[2021-06-01T20:13:51.033Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	varley: not about delegation
[2021-06-01T20:14:04.029Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... clarify: is this for system-to-system (e.g. client_credentials)
[2021-06-01T20:14:08.282Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... or both?
[2021-06-01T20:14:09.516Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:14:21.658Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... or personal interaction w.r.t consent?
[2021-06-01T20:14:46.841Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-01T20:14:52.738Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: several layers to this. Most focus has been on client_credentials
[2021-06-01T20:15:20.754Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... for general access control (simple case) OAuth2 makes sense
[2021-06-01T20:15:48.066Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... for those endpoints that could be abused w/o an authZ layer
[2021-06-01T20:16:21.131Z]	<Andreas_Freund>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:16:21.656Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... or: for those endpoints (such as presentation) one doesn't need authorization
[2021-06-01T20:16:33.680Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... those very much in scope
[2021-06-01T20:16:44.352Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... delegation is trickier: what are you delegating?
[2021-06-01T20:16:51.536Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... we need a concrete use case
[2021-06-01T20:17:03.049Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	.... how does one doe that w/ OAuth2
[2021-06-01T20:17:05.490Z]	<manu>	ack andreas
[2021-06-01T20:17:12.104Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... how does one do that with other mechanisms
[2021-06-01T20:17:47.228Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	andreas: pull vs. push use case
[2021-06-01T20:18:09.472Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: is it assumed that authZ is required to do that?
[2021-06-01T20:18:19.544Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	andreas: assumption is that authZ is needed
[2021-06-01T20:18:35.456Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... e.g. I have a presentation to make
[2021-06-01T20:18:42.352Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... here is domain/endpoint/challenge
[2021-06-01T20:18:53.215Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: there is a "start workflow" use case like this
[2021-06-01T20:19:05.270Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... is there authZ required on this endpoint, or do you just start
[2021-06-01T20:19:18.012Z]	<bblfish>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:19:26.284Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	andreas: is there something out of band in the communication?
[2021-06-01T20:19:27.385Z]	<manu>	ack bblfish
[2021-06-01T20:19:57.135Z]	<manu>	q+ bblfish
[2021-06-01T20:20:19.105Z]	<bblfish>	I was wondering how the Authorization fits with the Solid Authorization use cases we put together https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/#uc-privacy
[2021-06-01T20:20:24.771Z]	<Andreas_Freund>	@aaron ... there is the assumption of out of band communication to establish a trust relationship between requester and target systems
[2021-06-01T20:20:30.477Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: delegation -- what use case affects the HTTP API?
[2021-06-01T20:20:31.383Z]	<Andreas_Freund>	that is what i meant
[2021-06-01T20:20:44.783Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	thanks @andreas
[2021-06-01T20:20:47.925Z]	<bblfish>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:21:02.265Z]	<bblfish>	ok, changed browser
[2021-06-01T20:21:14.847Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	agropper: receive direct from the issuer or if the message needs to be encrypted so the holder cannot read the data
[2021-06-01T20:21:36.919Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... streaming of credentials -- could be discarded by the holder
[2021-06-01T20:21:51.224Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... cases where revocation mechanisms are not available
[2021-06-01T20:22:08.740Z]	<manu>	ack bblfish
[2021-06-01T20:22:30.551Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	henry: Solid authorization use cases -- these could be helpful
[2021-06-01T20:22:41.603Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... possibly the terminology is different
[2021-06-01T20:22:55.133Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: could you send your message to the CCG mailing list
[2021-06-01T20:23:07.921Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... could you provide a summary now?
[2021-06-01T20:23:19.670Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	henry: read access / write access to a resource
[2021-06-01T20:23:29.717Z]	<manu>	q+ to note that sounds like more to do w/ EDVs than VC HTTP API.
[2021-06-01T20:23:31.796Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... use cases for credentials (over a certain age)
[2021-06-01T20:23:45.141Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... how a client would know what credentials it has to give
[2021-06-01T20:23:53.510Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... server doesn't want to leak too much information
[2021-06-01T20:24:02.593Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-01T20:24:36.637Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: some folks see the HTTP API is an ecosystem API when in fact it is more focused on issuing VCs
[2021-06-01T20:25:05.748Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... the UCs provided by Henry might be more appropriate for confidential wallets
[2021-06-01T20:25:37.099Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... looking at the endpoints themselves, we need to ask whether certain endpoints need authZ or delegation
[2021-06-01T20:25:59.789Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+ I don't understand the question
[2021-06-01T20:26:25.660Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... seems that @adrian's UCs relate to the content of the data
[2021-06-01T20:26:28.037Z]	<manu>	ack adrian
[2021-06-01T20:26:33.028Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	agropper: the VC is a resource
[2021-06-01T20:27:05.282Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... what is manu asking? There is just the endpoint that will accept/produce the VC.
[2021-06-01T20:27:06.561Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:27:54.497Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: we need to be more specific about what these endpoints do if we want to talk about authZ
[2021-06-01T20:28:02.427Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... otherwise we'll keep going around in circles
[2021-06-01T20:28:16.467Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-01T20:28:17.358Z]	<Andreas_Freund>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:28:19.924Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... one possiblity: we talk about each endpoint and discuss what the endpoitn needs
[2021-06-01T20:28:25.283Z]	<manu>	ack andreas
[2021-06-01T20:28:42.544Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	andreas: need to distinguish b/t authZ of the endpoint and authZ of the resource
[2021-06-01T20:28:51.818Z]	<manu>	q+ this is about authorization of the endpoint (not the VC)
[2021-06-01T20:28:53.532Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... can the target system be called by the requestor system?
[2021-06-01T20:29:22.881Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... I have SAP (A) on one side and Oracle (A)
[2021-06-01T20:29:45.193Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... if oracle (B) doesn't know that SAP (B) isn't delegated by SAP (A), it would reject that request
[2021-06-01T20:30:15.895Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... but we would want a delegation model that would allow these sorts of interactions
[2021-06-01T20:30:38.227Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	agropper: we have HTTP in the specification name
[2021-06-01T20:30:55.281Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... one brings a token that allows one to call that resource
[2021-06-01T20:31:11.224Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... what is the issue about multiple endpoints? HTTP says it all
[2021-06-01T20:31:34.896Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	andreas: the different endpoints do different things: some are public some are not
[2021-06-01T20:31:51.427Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	gropper: does the resource owner have ability to delegate to another entity
[2021-06-01T20:31:59.357Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... difference b/t oauth2 and uma
[2021-06-01T20:32:20.539Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	andreas: e.g. SAP (A) delegates to SAP (B)
[2021-06-01T20:32:26.911Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:32:52.292Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	andreas: system a requests a resource (a presentation)
[2021-06-01T20:33:20.479Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: I think the kind of delegation adrian is talking about is out of scope
[2021-06-01T20:33:41.577Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... by "resource", the language adrian is using could be interpreted in several ways
[2021-06-01T20:33:51.802Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... if you're reasoning about the VC, that is out of scope
[2021-06-01T20:33:57.206Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	agropper: agreed
[2021-06-01T20:34:27.807Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: can you hit the endpoint or not
[2021-06-01T20:34:36.793Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... if so, you can issue anything
[2021-06-01T20:34:50.959Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... unless we have a very fine-grained authZ framework
[2021-06-01T20:35:01.136Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... two levels: can we do the simple stuff (OAuth2)
[2021-06-01T20:35:07.573Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:35:12.306Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... e.g. direct system-to-system calls
[2021-06-01T20:35:33.071Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... after that, what kind of delegation do we want to support
[2021-06-01T20:35:45.374Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... keep the complex authZ mechanisms in mind
[2021-06-01T20:35:47.461Z]	<Andreas_Freund>	+1
[2021-06-01T20:35:59.452Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-06-01T20:36:01.289Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-01T20:36:03.057Z]	<manu>	ack adrian
[2021-06-01T20:36:03.865Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... but keep the simple use cases front and center
[2021-06-01T20:36:13.751Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	agropper: OAuth uses string to determine scope
[2021-06-01T20:36:39.774Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-06-01T20:36:46.373Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... in confidential storage WG: does the subject have the right to delegate access
[2021-06-01T20:37:00.881Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... not whether the subject has the ability to read/write
[2021-06-01T20:37:12.236Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... sees this as a human rights issue
[2021-06-01T20:37:24.806Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: I will try to pose the issue differently
[2021-06-01T20:37:44.180Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... I don't understand the human rights issue
[2021-06-01T20:37:53.013Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... can we talk about this as a priorities thing?
[2021-06-01T20:38:00.760Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... start with the simple tasks
[2021-06-01T20:38:20.517Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... move the complex items to later (while keeping them in mind)
[2021-06-01T20:38:30.626Z]	<Andreas_Freund>	+1 simple stuff first
[2021-06-01T20:38:35.486Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... would there be any objections to prioritizing the simple stuff
[2021-06-01T20:38:32.752Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	Yes - I would object.
[2021-06-01T20:39:16.236Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	agropper: object on the grounds of 10 years of experience of the disaster caused by oauth in the health care industry
[2021-06-01T20:39:29.022Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... colleagues have all moved from OAuth to GNAP
[2021-06-01T20:39:39.138Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... reduced to login with Google/FB
[2021-06-01T20:39:52.909Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... OAuth needs to go away
[2021-06-01T20:39:59.407Z]	<Orie>	-1 to moving from an establshed standard to a DRAFT that is WIP.
[2021-06-01T20:40:06.029Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... serves B2B use cases
[2021-06-01T20:40:14.984Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:40:15.437Z]	<Andreas_Freund>	+1 Orie
[2021-06-01T20:40:15.844Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:40:17.933Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... doesn't help self-soveign protocols
[2021-06-01T20:40:27.812Z]	<manu>	ack TallTed
[2021-06-01T20:40:29.125Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: anyone to speak to OAuth2 use cases
[2021-06-01T20:40:31.624Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-06-01T20:40:43.245Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	tallted: OAuth is not reduced to those two providers
[2021-06-01T20:40:56.062Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... we have an auth layer that allows dozens of providers to be used
[2021-06-01T20:41:01.747Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... argument is spurious
[2021-06-01T20:41:05.412Z]	<manu>	q+ to speak to conflating single sign on vs. authorization.
[2021-06-01T20:41:15.571Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... many have chosen to leave OAuth, but the reasoning is flawed
[2021-06-01T20:41:37.741Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	Orie: as a standard, OAuth has been adopted by a large number of providers
[2021-06-01T20:41:45.619Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... it's not a draft or work item
[2021-06-01T20:41:51.325Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... it has flaws
[2021-06-01T20:41:58.882Z]	<bblfish>	On the whole I am on Adrian's side, I don't think it OAuth for Solid is really the right tool for example.
[2021-06-01T20:42:05.381Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-06-01T20:42:15.003Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... many of the design decisions have caused trouble for OAuth
[2021-06-01T20:42:21.295Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:42:27.843Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... but it has also stood up over time
[2021-06-01T20:42:36.765Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... there isn't a better solution today for OAuth
[2021-06-01T20:42:59.468Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... there are social issues ("nascar problem") but that doesn't mean that OAuth isn't a foundation worth building on
[2021-06-01T20:43:16.950Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... starting with OAuth could, in fact, help this effort to take off
[2021-06-01T20:43:22.234Z]	<bblfish>	q+ I am not sure why OAuth is needed at all here btw. Since Credentials are used for authentication.
[2021-06-01T20:43:24.303Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-01T20:43:25.419Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... it has been very difficult to replace OAuth
[2021-06-01T20:43:38.083Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: I think we're conflating things
[2021-06-01T20:43:57.895Z]	<Orie>	sure OIDC is built on OAuth....
[2021-06-01T20:44:00.702Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... when we say OAuth2 means "login with Google/FB", that's OIDC
[2021-06-01T20:44:08.570Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... I have the same issue with that
[2021-06-01T20:44:19.089Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... that is not what we're talking about
[2021-06-01T20:44:19.974Z]	<TallTed>	OIDC is also not trapped in a G/FB coin-flip
[2021-06-01T20:44:25.372Z]	<Orie>	^ bingo
[2021-06-01T20:44:30.667Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... when we mean applying auth to these endpoints
[2021-06-01T20:44:45.365Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... we are not talking about integrating OIDC into these endpoints
[2021-06-01T20:45:01.104Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... if people are objecting to SSO, that is not what we are talking about
[2021-06-01T20:45:12.086Z]	<bblfish>	q-
[2021-06-01T20:45:14.632Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... we are talking about the underlying OAuth protocol
[2021-06-01T20:45:16.835Z]	<Orie>	take your objects to ODIC to the OIDF :) I hear they have their own way of doing SIOP / SSI :)
[2021-06-01T20:45:43.034Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	agropper: the problem as manu stated, is not with OIDC. The problem is with registration
[2021-06-01T20:45:41.275Z]	<TallTed>	false.
[2021-06-01T20:45:43.858Z]	<Orie>	false
[2021-06-01T20:45:52.241Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: how is it incompatible?
[2021-06-01T20:46:00.091Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	https://github.com/go-oauth2/redis
^ This form of OAuth2
The tokens are for servers/APIs, not for data subjects
[2021-06-01T20:46:19.930Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	gropper: the service provider needs a process by which they issue a client id and that process involves some sort of identity verification
[2021-06-01T20:46:24.070Z]	<TallTed>	proof of falsity: http://youid.openlinksw.com/
[2021-06-01T20:46:37.704Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... e.g. if you have a valid credit card, we will issue X to you
[2021-06-01T20:46:43.288Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:46:46.773Z]	<manu>	ack adrian
[2021-06-01T20:46:47.973Z]	<TallTed>	q
[2021-06-01T20:46:53.476Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:46:56.996Z]	<Orie>	there is a difference between "authenticating an application" and a "human being"....
[2021-06-01T20:47:00.214Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... the reason OAuth only works in B2B case is because of the client registration requirement
[2021-06-01T20:47:10.445Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: I do not agree
[2021-06-01T20:47:27.114Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... one can set up your own server without needing to use any of the stuff described
[2021-06-01T20:47:43.905Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... to get an oauth client_id and secret, all you need is a webpage
[2021-06-01T20:48:11.719Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... I do agree about the use of OIDC to force the use of large providers
[2021-06-01T20:48:16.883Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-01T20:48:18.948Z]	<manu>	ack tallted
[2021-06-01T20:48:30.205Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:48:57.116Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	tallted: the UID link above allows one to set up with sufficient crypto to publish the public portion of your sign-in material
[2021-06-01T20:49:14.506Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... there is no reason to have to use the big 2 or 3 providers
[2021-06-01T20:49:30.057Z]	<manu>	ack adrian
[2021-06-01T20:50:14.697Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	agropper: to Orie's point: the reason for my objection (and the reason to do GNAP in parallel): safety is not the issue. The issue is about privacy
[2021-06-01T20:50:28.261Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:50:33.825Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... the barrier to client registration is a barrier to adoption
[2021-06-01T20:50:41.133Z]	<manu>	q+ to run some polls to get feedback from the community.
[2021-06-01T20:50:54.628Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... when client registration is introduced, you create a system that is unfair to the subjects
[2021-06-01T20:51:17.008Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	but what if all the subjects of the VCs in question are inanimate objects and batches of steel or coal?
[2021-06-01T20:51:17.387Z]	<manu>	ack tallted
[2021-06-01T20:51:23.616Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... the argument is based on privacy not security
[2021-06-01T20:51:29.939Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	OAuth is being used to authenticate servers which are passing between them VCs about rocks
[2021-06-01T20:51:33.578Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:51:41.043Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	tallted: you rejected my argument because of the last sentence.
[2021-06-01T20:52:32.113Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	agropper: I provided an example that oauth is successful in B2B b/c of client registration
[2021-06-01T20:52:54.311Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	tallted: dozens of instances where a verifiable identity does not require a B2B registration
[2021-06-01T20:53:42.847Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: make sure no one gets too passionate and that there are no personal attacks
[2021-06-01T20:53:59.942Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... would like to collect some data (poll not a decision)
[2021-06-01T20:54:10.045Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... just a +1/-1 poll
[2021-06-01T20:54:17.431Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... start with adrian's proposal
[2021-06-01T20:54:38.223Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... to prioritize working with OAuth2 and GNAP simulaneously
[2021-06-01T20:55:17.236Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... just getting feedback
[2021-06-01T20:55:23.342Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... there will be several pos
[2021-06-01T20:55:23.829Z]	<manu>	POLL: Prioritize working on OAuth2 and GNAP simultaneously when adding authorization to VC HTTP API endpoints.
[2021-06-01T20:55:27.315Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... polls
[2021-06-01T20:55:28.866Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	+1
[2021-06-01T20:55:35.894Z]	<Orie>	-1
[2021-06-01T20:55:37.382Z]	<manu>	-1
[2021-06-01T20:55:38.695Z]	<Andreas_Freund>	-1
[2021-06-01T20:55:41.043Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	-1
[2021-06-01T20:55:43.752Z]	<TallTed>	-.9
[2021-06-01T20:55:49.451Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	-1
[2021-06-01T20:55:53.188Z]	<markus_sabadello>	+0.5
[2021-06-01T20:56:08.241Z]	<Mike_Varley>	-1; I do not feel GNAP is ready to be worked with yet. But I hope it gets there soon
[2021-06-01T20:56:28.254Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	0
[2021-06-01T20:56:33.591Z]	<bblfish>	ISn't GNAP a 100 page proposal that is only just started being worked on at the IETF?
[2021-06-01T20:56:41.375Z]	<David_Ward>	-0.1
[2021-06-01T20:56:50.399Z]	<Anil_John>	-1 as GNAP is still too immature
[2021-06-01T20:56:56.868Z]	<Orie>	my reason for -1 is that both GNAP is not stable enough  to use in production today, and its additional complexity which is orthogonal to our mission
[2021-06-01T20:57:00.003Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: GNAP is in early days at IETF
[2021-06-01T20:57:30.948Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... counter proposal: to prioritize working with OAuth2
[2021-06-01T20:57:52.441Z]	<Anil_John>	XACML :-)
[2021-06-01T20:58:06.133Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	XDI link contracts!
[2021-06-01T20:58:15.675Z]	<manu>	POLL: Prioritize working on OAuth2 for authorization to VC HTTP API endpoints as a priority 1 item and enable the use of other authorization mechanisms like GNAP, ZCAPs, etc. as a priority 2 item.
[2021-06-01T20:58:25.708Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	- 1
[2021-06-01T20:58:31.656Z]	<Orie>	-1 to getting tangled in lower priority work
[2021-06-01T20:58:47.805Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	q+
[2021-06-01T20:58:48.944Z]	<TallTed>	wording bites me...
[2021-06-01T20:58:50.010Z]	<Mike_Varley>	+1 to OAuth 2.0 client credentials, +0.1 for user authorization
[2021-06-01T20:58:50.509Z]	<Andreas_Freund>	+1 on oauth2, -1 on any other work for rn
[2021-06-01T20:59:01.704Z]	<markus_sabadello>	0
[2021-06-01T20:59:05.155Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	0
[2021-06-01T20:59:22.427Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	+1 on OAuth2, 0 on other work
[2021-06-01T20:59:45.801Z]	<Orie>	"lower priority" means a license to distract and waste call time, but no commitment/
[2021-06-01T20:59:49.330Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	juan: what do the priority numbers mean?
[2021-06-01T20:59:52.647Z]	<TallTed>	+1 presuming *enabling* other authz potential in future is not blocked, is actively worked toward
[2021-06-01T20:59:54.832Z]	<Orie>	at least to me
[2021-06-01T20:59:57.610Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: very hand-wavy
[2021-06-01T21:00:38.197Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	juan: recalls concerns about how OAuth2 becomes possible but infeasable at scale
[2021-06-01T21:00:50.291Z]	<Orie>	I would be supportive of "not blocking future solutions" and "not spending time on them other than when they are at risk or having the door shut on them".
[2021-06-01T21:01:06.180Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	manu: what we are seeing is that there is a preference for OAuth2
[2021-06-01T21:01:12.124Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... we are at the top of the hour
[2021-06-01T21:01:14.337Z]	<TallTed>	*nods*  yes, Orie
[2021-06-01T21:01:18.562Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... we will come back to this next week
[2021-06-01T21:01:47.787Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... adrian can you come up with a proposal that would get consensus?
[2021-06-01T21:01:48.516Z]	<Orie>	I suspect that HTTP headers are not going away anytime soon.
[2021-06-01T21:01:54.905Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... we can start with one endpoint
[2021-06-01T21:02:10.555Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... e.g. verify endpoint -- what authZ should it support?
[2021-06-01T21:02:14.704Z]	<David_Ward>	Can the technology used be kicked down the road a bit?  Is it actually important at this time until how the end points fit the use cases are worked out?
[2021-06-01T21:02:21.091Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... we will put aside time for use cases next wee
[2021-06-01T21:02:27.784Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	... thank you everyone for your engagement
[2021-06-01T21:02:47.057Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(DIF/Spruce)>	DW +1
[2021-06-01T21:02:49.119Z]	<bblfish>	ciao
[2021-06-01T21:02:50.836Z]	<TallTed>	+1 David_Ward
