[2020-09-21T15:00:39.395Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:00:49.302Z]	<Phil-T3>	If you are atttending the VC CCG it has move to https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__meet.w3c-2Dccg.org_weekly&d=DwIGaQ&c=l45AxH-kUV29SRQusp9vYR0n1GycN4_2jInuKy6zbqQ&r=whPMCrJJokni4GTPDANC6Fj--rQ5itrFskRlh4e4wJo&m=_tHiEQxhfCW62iKslJh0vapAb5OGVIlKSzY71OfFsR8&s=VxWlq3A1dSWnXij9XhCNzL_sogGDK53N9zs6V2BRfR4&e=
[2020-09-21T15:01:04.988Z]	<tzviya>	present+ Tzviya_Siegman
[2020-09-21T15:01:11.580Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:01:24.540Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:01:28.444Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-09-21T15:01:33.467Z]	<ccgbot>	Phil: present+
[2020-09-21T15:01:35.148Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:01:36.035Z]	<ottonomy>	https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/weekly
[2020-09-21T15:01:47.783Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:04:00.744Z]	<ccgbot>	Jeanne_Kitchens: Thanks for the information Kim...useful to know and get to know another webinar service.
[2020-09-21T15:04:03.672Z]	<ccgbot>	Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky: Welcome to the brave new world of screen sharing with one another!
[2020-09-21T15:04:25.676Z]	<ccgbot>	Stuart_Freeman: :heart: jitsi
[2020-09-21T15:04:28.101Z]	<ccgbot>	Jeanne_Kitchens: ....brave is turning the cameras on:)
[2020-09-21T15:04:51.588Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:04:53.948Z]	<Phil-T3>	@jeanne  - especially for those of us in the PDT (8 in the morning)
[2020-09-21T15:04:56.281Z]	<ccgbot>	Jacksón: present+
[2020-09-21T15:05:07.567Z]	<ccgbot>	Stuart_Freeman: present+
[2020-09-21T15:05:09.747Z]	<jimgoodell>	Is there a new way of connecting today?
[2020-09-21T15:05:12.056Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-09-21T15:05:20.624Z]	<ccgbot>	Jacksón: @jimgoodell https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/weekly
[2020-09-21T15:05:27.554Z]	<ccgbot>	David_Ward: present+
[2020-09-21T15:05:29.828Z]	<jimgoodell>	Tnx!
[2020-09-21T15:05:29.964Z]	<JamesChartrand>	present+
[2020-09-21T15:05:39.487Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:05:42.174Z]	<ccgbot>	FNb55f41373ce2cc0f06c79af32252af79 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:10:01.831Z]	<ccgbot>	Laura_Jaurequi: I can't unmute.. happy to scribe
[2020-09-21T15:10:02.597Z]	<ccgbot>	FNb1458b464efe02101b4dc4ce38672605 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:10:22.522Z]	<ccgbot>	Chris_Winczewski: sounds good!
[2020-09-21T15:10:35.481Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:10:44.814Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: chriswinc
[2020-09-21T15:11:04.569Z]	<ccgbot>	Chris_Winczewski: kimhd: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2020-09-21T15:11:22.632Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:11:25.104Z]	<ccgbot>	David Ward joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:11:33.420Z]	<lauraj>	how do we unmute?
[2020-09-21T15:11:36.397Z]	<ccgbot>	Phil Barker joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:11:42.115Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:11:57.219Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:12:07.537Z]	<ccgbot>	Laura_Jaurequi: no
[2020-09-21T15:12:44.960Z]	<ccgbot>	Stuart_Freeman: the `m` key should also toggle your mute
[2020-09-21T15:12:49.640Z]	<ccgbot>	FNe9af3279f731b7bfed905a5e8dd40290 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:13:00.353Z]	<ccgbot>	robbie.jones@forgerock.com joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:13:36.772Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:13:55.065Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:14:10.843Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:14:12.170Z]	<ccgbot>	Adam Lemmon joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:14:14.273Z]	<ccgbot>	by_caballero: that was definitely joe's laugh
[2020-09-21T15:14:21.938Z]	<ccgbot>	Phil: Kim are you still screen sharing?
[2020-09-21T15:14:32.916Z]	<ccgbot>	Chris_Winczewski: Laura Jaurequi and Joe Andrieu for reintroductions
[2020-09-21T15:14:46.924Z]	<ccgbot>	David Ward joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:14:56.293Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2020-09-21T15:15:00.733Z]	<ccgbot>	David Ward left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:15:19.802Z]	<ccgbot>	Kim: Topic: Modeling Verifiable Credentials for Education
[2020-09-21T15:15:30.542Z]	<ccgbot>	Kim: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pt-VNnjoYgl23Mlu0Tjyax5RgANPBfDijERz0SNYfSo/edit?ts=5f387d19#
[2020-09-21T15:15:42.733Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:15:46.301Z]	<ccgbot>	David Ward joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:16:18.755Z]	<ccgbot>	David Ward left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:16:34.016Z]	<ccgbot>	Kim: q?
[2020-09-21T15:16:34.068Z]	<ccgbot>	The speaker queue is empty.
[2020-09-21T15:16:41.888Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:16:44.136Z]	<ccgbot>	by_caballero joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:17:05.563Z]	<chriswinc>	kimhd: Google Doc has been good at the start but we should move to the W3C draft report format.
[2020-09-21T15:17:31.492Z]	<chriswinc>	... Will help with Github integration as well.
[2020-09-21T15:18:24.022Z]	<chriswinc>	... Orie has helped with spectext
[2020-09-21T15:19:00.340Z]	<ccgbot>	by_caballero: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Sep/0058.html
[2020-09-21T15:19:00.395Z]	<ccgbot>	^ Here's the link to Orie's project
[2020-09-21T15:19:41.121Z]	<chriswinc>	... This will help with IP and to mature this work within W3C
[2020-09-21T15:20:21.355Z]	<chriswinc>	... We can provide a tutorial if this format is new to you.
[2020-09-21T15:20:59.908Z]	<chriswinc>	... "hasAchieved" item up for discussion
[2020-09-21T15:21:45.811Z]	<ccgbot>	Simone Ravaioli (Digitary) joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:22:08.051Z]	<chriswinc>	ottonomy: We have been kicking this term around for a while. Anthony Camilleri has suggested updates.
[2020-09-21T15:22:21.814Z]	<ccgbot>	FNe9af3279f731b7bfed905a5e8dd40290 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:22:36.768Z]	<chriswinc>	... schema.org provides a good base for this
[2020-09-21T15:22:57.042Z]	<chriswinc>	... looking to add one more term for this field
[2020-09-21T15:23:17.130Z]	<chriswinc>	... suggesting a PR for schema.org within the person class
[2020-09-21T15:23:37.773Z]	<PhilBarker>	q+
[2020-09-21T15:23:37.805Z]	<ccgbot>	PhilBarker has been added to the queue: PhilBarker
[2020-09-21T15:23:45.637Z]	<chriswinc>	... Educational/Occupational Domain
[2020-09-21T15:23:50.603Z]	<jimgoodell>	q+
[2020-09-21T15:23:50.629Z]	<ccgbot>	jimgoodell has been added to the queue: PhilBarker, jimgoodell
[2020-09-21T15:24:19.990Z]	<chriswinc>	... Not restricted to EDU, can be utilized broadly
[2020-09-21T15:24:41.928Z]	<kimhd>	ack PhilBarker
[2020-09-21T15:24:41.959Z]	<ccgbot>	PhilBarker has the floor.
[2020-09-21T15:24:46.971Z]	<chriswinc>	kimhd: Thank you Nate. PhilA up.
[2020-09-21T15:25:07.002Z]	<ccgbot>	Jeanne_Kitchens: schema.org still has educational occupational credential as pending.  My understanding is they're looking for how it's being used.  Phil Barker...may have more information about how to get it out of pending.
[2020-09-21T15:25:15.282Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:25:21.521Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:25:28.491Z]	<chriswinc>	s/PhilA/PhilBarker
[2020-09-21T15:25:38.313Z]	<ccgbot>	David Ward joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:25:45.890Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:25:49.468Z]	<ccgbot>	David Ward left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:25:55.078Z]	<chriswinc>	PhilBarker: schema.org has the "hasCredential" field
[2020-09-21T15:25:55.249Z]	<ccgbot>	Jeanne_Kitchens: https://schema.org/hasCredential
[2020-09-21T15:26:11.600Z]	<chriswinc>	ottonomy: Thank you, we should look into this.
[2020-09-21T15:26:30.493Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2020-09-21T15:26:34.333Z]	<chriswinc>	kimhd: There are some differences between the two.
[2020-09-21T15:26:35.767Z]	<tzviya>	https://github.com/schemaorg/schemaorg/issues/2289 - Phil would know more about this issue because he's on it, but this is both pending and released?
[2020-09-21T15:27:13.116Z]	<chriswinc>	... hasAchieved is a bit more general but we should discuss
[2020-09-21T15:27:17.909Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-09-21T15:27:17.948Z]	<ccgbot>	The current speaker queue is: jimgoodell
[2020-09-21T15:27:24.456Z]	<kimhd>	ack jimgoodell
[2020-09-21T15:27:24.494Z]	<ccgbot>	jimgoodell has the floor.
[2020-09-21T15:27:50.709Z]	<kimhd>	q+ about PII
[2020-09-21T15:27:50.741Z]	<ccgbot>	kimhd has been added to the queue: kimhd
[2020-09-21T15:28:07.849Z]	<chriswinc>	jimgoodell: schema.org not historically about person-type data. I am curious about verbs from xAPI such as hasConverted
[2020-09-21T15:28:14.329Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-09-21T15:28:14.362Z]	<ccgbot>	The current speaker queue is: kimhd
[2020-09-21T15:28:18.498Z]	<chriswinc>	... is this applicable here?
[2020-09-21T15:28:33.923Z]	<ccgbot>	Phil: @JimGoodell Does completing a program mean that the institution has made that assertion formally?
[2020-09-21T15:28:39.697Z]	<chriswinc>	kimhd: xAPI added to Doc
[2020-09-21T15:29:39.633Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-09-21T15:29:39.678Z]	<ccgbot>	The current speaker queue is: kimhd
[2020-09-21T15:29:43.631Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-09-21T15:29:43.680Z]	<ccgbot>	kimhd has the floor (about PII).
[2020-09-21T15:29:48.940Z]	<chriswinc>	... Person class in schema.org does have PII attributes. How we choose to use these is important. Does this address Jim's point?
[2020-09-21T15:30:10.425Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to discuss options
[2020-09-21T15:30:10.455Z]	<ccgbot>	ottonomy has been added to the queue: ottonomy
[2020-09-21T15:30:19.081Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-09-21T15:30:19.110Z]	<ccgbot>	ottonomy has the floor (to discuss options).
[2020-09-21T15:30:45.799Z]	<chriswinc>	ottonomy: We should look at the various options to resolve.
[2020-09-21T15:31:17.950Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-09-21T15:31:17.981Z]	<ccgbot>	The speaker queue is empty.
[2020-09-21T15:31:21.756Z]	<chriswinc>	... leaning toward using hasAchieved, but what really matters is how people use it.
[2020-09-21T15:31:26.498Z]	<ccgbot>	Phil: +1 for "has achieved" to broaden the target of what is achieved.
[2020-09-21T15:31:31.753Z]	<ccgbot>	Jeanne_Kitchens: Like schema.org, the Credential Engine's family of CTDL schema's is RDF based and the CTDL schemas are mapped to schema.org.  For example, programmatic output of CTDL mapped to schema .org for Google
[2020-09-21T15:31:56.131Z]	<chriswinc>	... hasAchieved fits a number of different use cases
[2020-09-21T15:32:18.392Z]	<chriswinc>	... one of the outcomes could be a PR to schema.org
[2020-09-21T15:32:26.511Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:32:37.148Z]	<tzviya>	q+ to ask Phil why hasCredential is still pending if it was implemented a year ago
[2020-09-21T15:32:37.185Z]	<ccgbot>	tzviya has been added to the queue: tzviya
[2020-09-21T15:32:43.203Z]	<chriswinc>	kimhd: agree, possibly remanimg hasPerfomed would work
[2020-09-21T15:32:46.749Z]	<ccgbot>	Stuart Freeman joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:32:51.162Z]	<ccgbot>	Jeanne_Kitchens: +1 of hasAchieved or similar property useful for varying types of achievements.
[2020-09-21T15:33:16.924Z]	<chriswinc>	... another alternative was mentioned in the doc.
[2020-09-21T15:33:31.278Z]	<kimhd>	ack tzviya
[2020-09-21T15:33:31.310Z]	<ccgbot>	tzviya has the floor (to ask Phil why hasCredential is still pending if it was implemented a year ago).
[2020-09-21T15:33:52.673Z]	<chriswinc>	tzviya: Why is hasCredential still listed as "pending" on schema.org?
[2020-09-21T15:34:55.278Z]	<chriswinc>	PhilBarker: This is normal and items can be listed as pending for a while. Originally came from Google, usage is not fully known.
[2020-09-21T15:35:11.413Z]	<chriswinc>	... hasCredential could be a subcategory of hasAchieved
[2020-09-21T15:36:00.657Z]	<ccgbot>	Phil: Yes
[2020-09-21T15:36:02.268Z]	<ccgbot>	by_caballero: you are
[2020-09-21T15:36:39.229Z]	<chriswinc>	kimhd: Calling on ottonomy to talk about Example 1 "Course/Program Certificate"
[2020-09-21T15:37:28.028Z]	<ccgbot>	Jeanne_Kitchens: Background....Phil chaired the W3C community that proposed educational occupational credential as part of work with Credential Engine towards use cases for improving search and discovery of credential information.
[2020-09-21T15:37:58.173Z]	<chriswinc>	ottonomy: Sometimes there were conflicts within terms. These two examples can be merged when conflicts resolved.
[2020-09-21T15:38:53.754Z]	<chriswinc>	kimhd: Moving to Github will help with some of this.
[2020-09-21T15:39:41.589Z]	<ottonomy>	Apologies I will have to step away for a mintue
[2020-09-21T15:39:49.230Z]	<chriswinc>	... One other difference is the recipient info as a separate block (OpenBadges behavior)
[2020-09-21T15:39:54.771Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-09-21T15:39:54.813Z]	<ccgbot>	The speaker queue is empty.
[2020-09-21T15:40:43.677Z]	<chriswinc>	... Next item to tee up: Images associated with credentials
[2020-09-21T15:41:08.225Z]	<chriswinc>	... What is displayed in a browser, wallet, etc. for preview
[2020-09-21T15:41:12.378Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:41:44.868Z]	<chriswinc>	... A wallet can understand how to handle this
[2020-09-21T15:42:20.837Z]	<chriswinc>	... Blockcerts evolved to use display html as OpenBadges uses images in a different way
[2020-09-21T15:42:52.068Z]	<chriswinc>	... People want to be able to view these in different ways outside the wallet
[2020-09-21T15:43:07.148Z]	<chriswinc>	... How do you embed and encode information?
[2020-09-21T15:43:38.508Z]	<chriswinc>	... Images can also have PII so hosting needs to be considered
[2020-09-21T15:44:59.920Z]	<chriswinc>	... Can we standardize on a set of properties that cover a general set of use cases?
[2020-09-21T15:45:31.004Z]	<chriswinc>	... Open Badges uses an image type. Anthony Camilleri proposed "displayproperties"
[2020-09-21T15:46:20.681Z]	<chriswinc>	... We do have precedent in the LER wrapper document
[2020-09-21T15:46:47.951Z]	<chriswinc>	... Need to always keep discoverability in mind
[2020-09-21T15:47:16.016Z]	<chriswinc>	... Why "type" information do we need to carry to support?
[2020-09-21T15:47:35.825Z]	<chriswinc>	s/Why/What
[2020-09-21T15:47:58.408Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:48:05.637Z]	<ccgbot>	Phil: This seems particularly an issue where the credential is an ID assertion (that's a type of credential).
[2020-09-21T15:48:36.265Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-09-21T15:48:36.291Z]	<ccgbot>	The speaker queue is empty.
[2020-09-21T15:49:17.520Z]	<ccgbot>	Jeanne_Kitchens: Thank you all.  Great meeting!
[2020-09-21T15:49:18.208Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:18.953Z]	<ccgbot>	Stuart Freeman left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:19.319Z]	<ccgbot>	Laura_Jaurequi: Thanks
[2020-09-21T15:49:19.451Z]	<ccgbot>	Phil left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:19.728Z]	<ccgbot>	Adam Lemmon left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:22.848Z]	<ccgbot>	Kim left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:22.898Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:22.898Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:22.948Z]	<ccgbot>	FNb55f41373ce2cc0f06c79af32252af79 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:23.300Z]	<ccgbot>	Phil Barker left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:24.356Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:24.401Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:24.792Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:25.001Z]	<ccgbot>	Simone Ravaioli (Digitary) left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:25.349Z]	<chriswinc>	kimhd: Thank you everyone!
[2020-09-21T15:49:25.385Z]	<ccgbot>	David Ward left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:25.795Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:26.463Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:26.732Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:29.589Z]	<ccgbot>	Chris Winczewski left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:29.757Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:33.351Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:49:36.993Z]	<ccgbot>	FN13c4533a5b6b228ded17a1fc6ab5e497 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:50:50.362Z]	<ccgbot>	 joined the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:51:34.504Z]	<ccgbot>	FN2cb54b4599ccc99a262054360550971d left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:51:35.217Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:51:52.397Z]	<ccgbot>	 left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:53:12.460Z]	<ccgbot>	robbie.jones@forgerock.com left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T15:58:44.539Z]	<ccgbot>	Nate Otto (@ottonomy) Badgr/CSky left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T16:03:20.959Z]	<ccgbot>	by_caballero left the meeting.
[2020-09-21T16:03:21.111Z]	<ccgbot>	The meeting has ended.
