[2022-10-18T19:00:26.335Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:00:26.336Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:00:26.336Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:00:44.121Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:01:39.998Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:01:46.801Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:02:08.455Z]	<Mike_Varley>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:03:00.690Z]	<Logan>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:03:20.670Z]	<Patrick_(IDLab)>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:04:45.817Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:05:17.260Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:05:17.261Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:05:17.788Z]	<Patrick_(IDLab)>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:05:25.093Z]	<Logan>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:05:25.557Z]	<John_Henderson>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:05:29.831Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:05:32.721Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:05:34.524Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-10-18T19:05:34.524Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: vcapi
[2022-10-18T19:05:40.769Z]	<PaulDietrich_GS1>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:06:00.530Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Oct/0087.html
[2022-10-18T19:06:02.290Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Welcome everyone to the October 18th 2022 verifiable credentials API call. Our agenda is in the chat Channel.
[2022-10-18T19:06:10.249Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:06:33.407Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: on the agenda today, we are discussing internal versus external API language we're going to talk a bit about a test for the default issuer and an end point we've got some amount of discussion around credential ID and whether or not we're going to use that in update credential status that one's been hanging out for a bit and then any other issues as time permits.
[2022-10-18T19:06:42.802Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:06:49.696Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: we will of course start with our regular introductions reintroductions and relevant Community updates okay with all that said let's go ahead well the first question is are there any updates or changes to the agenda.
[2022-10-18T19:06:53.992Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Anything else folks want to talk about today?
[2022-10-18T19:07:00.980Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Dave.
[2022-10-18T19:07:30.683Z]	<Brian>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:07:31.088Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I didn't check the the agenda for this but I know during the jmf work a number of things have come up around just a few minor changes for payloads for the VC API to to make sure that these exchanges API is consistent with the other apis we might want to cover that briefly and talk about getting spec changes in so that people that are implementing the exchanges API at JFF.
[2022-10-18T19:07:35.544Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Are doing the same thing.
[2022-10-18T19:07:40.746Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:07:52.823Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so let's put that first up on the agenda then right after introductions and relevant Community updates please remind me if I forget Dave can you raise an issue if there isn't one associated with it so we can just get that into the into the minutes.
[2022-10-18T19:07:56.104Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  all right.
[2022-10-18T19:07:59.476Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Other updates or changes to the agenda?
[2022-10-18T19:08:02.373Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Introductions, Relevant Community Updates
[2022-10-18T19:08:25.469Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right first up introductions reintroductions relevant Community updates I think we have a couple of new folks here Greg John I think you've been here John Henderson I think you've been here before but Greg would you like to just do a quick introduction to yourself what you're interested in that kind of stuff.
[2022-10-18T19:08:54.525Z]	<Transcriber>	Greg_Bernstein: Hi my name is Gregg Bernstein previously been teaching Web Design Systems and cyber security at one of our local colleges here in California Cal State universities Bay Breyer did a lot of networking work particularly standardization at the ietf and I was teaching one covid hit and got really interested in verifiable credentials.
[2022-10-18T19:09:25.595Z]	<Transcriber>	Greg_Bernstein: so my interest is General verifiable could rent credentials web interfaces for them the security stuff associated with them and I like to get hands on and try out examples of things and such like that and so I was looking at the apis and got interested in your work.
[2022-10-18T19:09:27.460Z]	<Mike_Varley>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:09:32.487Z]	<Transcriber>	Greg_Bernstein: Already downloaded this stuff from get and took a little bit at look at it.
[2022-10-18T19:09:53.686Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Awesome that's great welcome to the community Greg wonderful to have you here especially given your background and your area of Interest we definitely need more folks down in the code looking at things and in trying things out so welcome 
[2022-10-18T19:09:53.686Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: John do you want to do a re-intro, up to you?
[2022-10-18T19:10:07.553Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: Oh sure yeah just very briefly yep I'm John I'm a software engineer with the energy web foundation so we have a VC API implementation so following along here.
[2022-10-18T19:10:19.096Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Awesome welcome welcome again to the community any other introductions reintroductions or relevant Community updates.
[2022-10-18T19:10:55.586Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right I have a couple the first one is that I believe we came to consensus last week on publishing snapshot of the verifiable credential API to the verifiable credential working group and the mechanics around that and all that stuff so that is on my work queue I hope to get to it in the next week or two the data Integrity work is also going out as far.
[2022-10-18T19:10:55.986Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  public working draft.
[2022-10-18T19:11:12.856Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's kind of what the ccwg is focused on right now and I'm one of the editors for that specs that's slowing everything else down so that's in process just haven't been able to get to it yet see.
[2022-10-18T19:11:43.327Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I think that's largely it for Community updates iiw the internet identity Workshop is coming up next month mid-november so if you haven't bought tickets definitely do so now they run out of tickets typically in there's going to be a lot of interop work involving the C API as well as you know the jobs for the Future Foundation is doing a huge interop fest Between like 30 companies VC API is involved in that it's one of the protocols that people are using and work is continuing their as Dave Longley mentioned okay I think that's it for Community updates let's go ahead and jump into alignment I guess of BC API for GFF plugfest.
[2022-10-18T19:12:14.195Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Alignment of VC API for JFF Plugest
[2022-10-18T19:12:16.581Z]	<Dave_Longley>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/311
[2022-10-18T19:12:22.079Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Dave do you have a issue we can drop in awesome thank you.
[2022-10-18T19:12:24.172Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah just dropped it into the chat.
[2022-10-18T19:12:33.139Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay let me go ahead and share my screen here and why don't you get us started there.
[2022-10-18T19:12:41.600Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Sure I'm also trying to quickly find a link to an example.
[2022-10-18T19:13:12.786Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: But the the short of it is a little while back in the verify API we decided to make sure that when it's either in the verifier the issue API which we made sure that when you're posting payloads to the API that you have a top-level property to put a verifiable credential or a verifiable presentation in and the same is true when the when the data is returned and we had a number of discussions around that and I'll agree that that was a good idea and made I believe.
[2022-10-18T19:13:13.275Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  we made those changes.
[2022-10-18T19:13:42.745Z]	<Dave_Longley>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api/#example-step-3-presentation-to-issuer-provide-verifiable-presentation
[2022-10-18T19:13:46.675Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: We did not make those changes to the X to the exchanges API and the same arguments and rules sort of apply there and so what this comes down to is is a very simple change so that when people are posting data to the VC API exchanges in point they should there should be a top-level property for verifiable presentation if they're posting a presentation instead of just posting a a raw presentation here's a.
[2022-10-18T19:13:47.124Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  link to one of the examples that would need to be updated.
[2022-10-18T19:14:20.467Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So that link shows the the post body just has a presentation Rawley posted posted there and instead what we want to do is have a property called verifiable presentation and put it under there and the argument for all of that that we went through before was to better future proof the API allow other properties potentially be included and allow other things to be posted in the same is true for any responses they come back from the server so.
[2022-10-18T19:14:20.995Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  this issue is about updating the examples to bring that in line with the.
[2022-10-18T19:14:53.771Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: We made with the other apis and this issue also covers its trying to slow down my talking because I know you're typing this on it this other all this issue also covers we have an example that uses put in the API the HTTP put instead of HTTP post and those semantics don't really match up because the user isn't putting a resource on a server somewhere they're trying to execute.
[2022-10-18T19:14:54.304Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  in in.
[2022-10-18T19:15:10.564Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Some transaction so they're not just placing a resource there to get get it back later so post is a better as it is the better semantics for that allowing the server to do whatever it needs to do not just store a payload.
[2022-10-18T19:15:10.822Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  or stories.
[2022-10-18T19:15:24.859Z]	<Patrick_(IDLab)>	+1
[2022-10-18T19:15:26.140Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Ice cream right any thoughts concerns plus ones yes we should do this - one no we should not from the group.
[2022-10-18T19:15:28.554Z]	<Mike_Varley>	+1
[2022-10-18T19:15:35.204Z]	<John_Henderson>	+1
[2022-10-18T19:15:35.486Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	+1
[2022-10-18T19:15:37.305Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So I'm seeing support from Patrick to do this support from like Farley to do this.
[2022-10-18T19:15:39.043Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	+1 (a reluctant one)
[2022-10-18T19:15:47.371Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: John Anderson Gregg Bernstein Dmitry Dmitry is reluctant with luck tonight's about Dimitri.
[2022-10-18T19:15:50.146Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Just changing code.
[2022-10-18T19:15:57.546Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead John.
[2022-10-18T19:16:01.813Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: Use the library on the broken semantics Dave.
[2022-10-18T19:16:07.497Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yes so let me see if I can find the where they put is from the spec.
[2022-10-18T19:16:15.980Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So here is a link to that.
[2022-10-18T19:16:16.176Z]	<Dave_Longley>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api/#continue-exchange
[2022-10-18T19:16:47.056Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So put is being the way the place where you use put in HDPE is when you want to store a resource untouched at some endpoint and so the expectation is that a client is going to generate some kind of resource some kind of data send it to a server and then the server is going to put it there and then it can be fetched later and really what's happening with the VC exchange API is you might be posting.
[2022-10-18T19:16:47.481Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  let's see what you actually post.
[2022-10-18T19:16:55.952Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Hopefully we have an example of that.
[2022-10-18T19:17:31.202Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: What's being sent up as a verifiable presentation and that's not just being stored at the end of the server that doesn't even make sense you're exchanging their presentation for another presentation that has like credentials in it or or maybe a VPR that is asking for more data so this this operation as a put makes no sense you're not giving the server a presentation that it's going to hold on to and then you can go get it later what you're doing is you're saying here's a presentation that's meant to satisfy some kind of.
[2022-10-18T19:17:31.984Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  constraints requirements in the exchange and in return I hope you give me back.
[2022-10-18T19:17:45.170Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: With credentials or you give me back a VPR that says you need more information and so post is is more appropriate for as the HTTP verb in that case.
[2022-10-18T19:17:51.257Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Patrick oh first John did that answer your question and then after you Patrick.
[2022-10-18T19:17:52.048Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: Yeah that's great thanks.
[2022-10-18T19:18:14.732Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): I was curious in this interaction so we talked about verifiable Prudential verifiable presentation but at which stage in the interaction do you actually make like a request for a presentation where you include your constraints and so on.
[2022-10-18T19:18:46.649Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So when an exchange is first received however you receive it whether that's through like a QR code or through a chappie interaction you'll receive an exchange URL and you're supposed to post an empty body to that exchange or L and in the future there might be other things supposed to it but right now it's just an empty body and in response you get back either a verifiable presentation with the credentials you're looking for because the server the server doesn't.
[2022-10-18T19:18:47.067Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  need anything else from you.
[2022-10-18T19:19:18.818Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: You get back a VPR that describes what else you might need to present in order to get the credentials that you're looking for then the expectation is you construct that presentation and you send it to the end point specified in the VPR and the VP are either and the end point either says okay now you're done and here are your credentials or it might have another VPR and that process can can go on based on whatever the business rules are for interacting with that Exchange.
[2022-10-18T19:19:22.810Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Okay and when you say VPR that stands for verifiable presentation request.
[2022-10-18T19:19:25.358Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah that's right.
[2022-10-18T19:19:47.253Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Patrick all right so we have a bunch of plus ones little reluctance to change code which is understandable no objections so it sounds like we can make this change unless there any objections.
[2022-10-18T19:20:10.607Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: And no objection I just want to clarify one more thing with Patrick if you're starting a chappie if you start an exchange from a chappie interaction you might have the initial VP are given to you with the interact field for the exchange and you can respond directly when that happens you could respond with your verifiable presentation to The Exchange directly in your first step.
[2022-10-18T19:20:38.406Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Okay cuz the the framework I'm familiar with like first you would establish a connection between two agents and then the verify agent would prepare internally a sort of presentation request and including their the ID of both connections here but in the VC API there seems like there's not that concept of connection between both.
[2022-10-18T19:20:42.406Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah that's right.
[2022-10-18T19:21:02.943Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Okay because I know there was another concept that people are working at it's called like a out of bound Communications which seemed more in line with what is the approach here of the VC API which is sort of communication that are not bound to any pre-existing connections.
[2022-10-18T19:21:14.335Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah so when you have a verifier you would sort of create that request internally and then send that payload to the holder and the holder would then.
[2022-10-18T19:21:21.269Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): See if he has a credential that matches that request and present the field that were required.
[2022-10-18T19:21:54.432Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah that's right and and so you might be starting an interaction where you visited a website and you chosen the credentials credential or credentials that you want on that site and the site's able to generate a VPR to pass to you through chappie in the beginning and then you choose a wallet and you respond to that BPR but you there are other use cases where you'll receive an exchange and point through some other mechanism that and you might not know what to send to the end point first.
[2022-10-18T19:21:54.886Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  you just post an empty body and that endpoint at that point would give.
[2022-10-18T19:21:58.739Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: For what it needs.
[2022-10-18T19:22:39.182Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Right I'm not hearing any objections so next steps are to raise a PR that fixes the exchanges and points to ensure that when verifiable verifiable presentation is returned that.
[2022-10-18T19:22:51.649Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is contained in a verifiable presentation property I have misspelled this.
[2022-10-18T19:22:55.085Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah and it's also in the case when you're submitting one so it's in both payload case.
[2022-10-18T19:23:00.804Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So stands for return.
[2022-10-18T19:23:21.328Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is sent or return that is contained okay there we go all right let's that seeing no one on the Queue I'll say this PR ready ready for PR in we will try to get that fixed really quickly so that the Jeff of plugfest folks can Implement accordingly.
[2022-10-18T19:23:21.667Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  go ahead.
[2022-10-18T19:23:39.817Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Just as a point just as a data point in case somebody's curious I don't expect a lot of jff implementers to go The Exchange Route I suspect.
[2022-10-18T19:23:50.756Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: I'll bet if you are implementing The Exchange Route and using it to test at jmf plugfest I'd love to hear from you.
[2022-10-18T19:24:09.272Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: I just because it's a simpler sorry it's a slightly more complicated workflow than just issue and so yeah I see Patrick something.
[2022-10-18T19:24:17.675Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): It's not related to what you said and so if people want to conclude that first.
[2022-10-18T19:24:37.570Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay and I guess Dmitry you're saying like if people are using like chappie playground to do it you just don't have to do and you have a web Molly just don't have to do VC API at all you can get past the second plugfest just using purely the chappie playground yep.
[2022-10-18T19:24:55.796Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: We like we have the exchange endpoint implemented but we need to polish it up so that it matches the spec but we're not going to really use it in the plugfest prove you can do we use it.
[2022-10-18T19:25:04.660Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Patrick.
[2022-10-18T19:25:34.575Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): So regarding the last two little lines he wrote here you mentioned that you want the very vulgar option sent or return and a very full presentation I just want to point out it seems to be related so like when you issue a credential the return body is the verifiable credential without like a verifiable credential field so sure.
[2022-10-18T19:25:34.973Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  shouldn't this match as well or.
[2022-10-18T19:25:39.222Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Dave.
[2022-10-18T19:26:00.521Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah that that is what we talked about before and if we haven't updated the spec yet to do that we need to do that but we had that discussion in a previous meeting and decided to do that somewhere else in the other apis so it I don't know if the this same PR could address those things all at the same time.
[2022-10-18T19:26:15.777Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): So ideally like any request or response should have like one layer above the actual payload to say what it is whether it's a potential Republican actual presentation exedra.
[2022-10-18T19:26:45.750Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah because that allows that gives us the future proofing features that we want and allows us to to work with these things now there might be this is when you're creating things or exchanging things it you know if there's a holder API in your fetching a credential that might not be a requirement but I don't have as much experience with the holder API and so can't speak to them.
[2022-10-18T19:27:03.222Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I'm trying to see what we do here we definitely in the issue thing we have a credential top-level thing that contains it in the where where where.
[2022-10-18T19:27:07.266Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): I usually just going to sort of the web API documentation Pages the.
[2022-10-18T19:27:25.845Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: In the return values and documented their that's why I'm kind of digging in in here that would be I thought we had components in here yeah we do trying to see she credential options.
[2022-10-18T19:27:30.705Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Really is in the.
[2022-10-18T19:27:42.573Z]	<Dave_Longley>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/291
[2022-10-18T19:27:50.732Z]	<Dave_Longley>	An issue related to the previous discussion ^
[2022-10-18T19:27:53.907Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is sure Mo pencils Issue request body we specify it we don't really specify each credential response in components is where it is components issue credential writes that.
[2022-10-18T19:27:59.214Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: No it's down at the bottom sorry.
[2022-10-18T19:28:14.489Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So in it sure looking for issue credential response.
[2022-10-18T19:28:18.780Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So I found the other issue where we had this discussion before and it's still it is also ready for a PR.
[2022-10-18T19:28:24.219Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: And I went over that in the shop yeah.
[2022-10-18T19:28:48.248Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Here yeah it just hasn't been updated yeah because we just return back standard bog standard verifiable credential and we should be returning back something with verifiable credential and this okay and in the yeah then the reason we did this was because we wanted to support eventually other formats being returned by the issuer API there's a theory that you could return back and mdl or you know.
[2022-10-18T19:28:48.745Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  ovc jaw door.
[2022-10-18T19:29:10.928Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2022-10-18T19:29:20.841Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah because like so in the case of like Aries and occupy you know so the AIP vv2 extended originally was only a non-credit but the ipv do extended this to also handle w3c data model credential and you specified that like in the in the body you know whether you want and on credential or json-ld.
[2022-10-18T19:29:21.716Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: He he he he.
[2022-10-18T19:29:21.892Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Angel and I think.
[2022-10-18T19:29:33.081Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): I really like the way that you define it because obviously different data model of credentials they don't operate the same way.
[2022-10-18T19:29:53.393Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Internal vs. External API language
[2022-10-18T19:30:06.105Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay all right so I think we're good there we just need those changes just need to be made to the API okay I think that's a that item so moving on to our next agenda topic we're going to revisit the internal versus external API language which was a discussion we started last week and kind of ran out of time to talk about issue is here.
[2022-10-18T19:30:06.944Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/282
[2022-10-18T19:30:11.658Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	if we have time, any chance we can talk about challenge management?
[2022-10-18T19:30:37.416Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And in this issue let's see where we got to last week was that we should move past the internal versus external language so she we don't need to talk about apis as being internal or external Dimitri I see your request in chat we can pick up challenge man.
[2022-10-18T19:31:08.435Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: After this issue probably it's a good it's a good topic but going back to external versus internal Joe Andrew noted that we should specify the roles that are you know calling which component and potentially why they're calling them Patrick mention that internal versus external would add complexity.
[2022-10-18T19:31:41.895Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's need to be anchored on a component and we need to specify the roles that are expected to call the component anyone any role can call any endpoint it's whether or not they're authorized to do so or not is the real question so there's a question around you know what are the expectations with these endpoints Joe noted that we really should get this into the specification before we try to do a publication of a note on it.
[2022-10-18T19:31:42.548Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  David Chadwick chimed in in.
[2022-10-18T19:31:59.007Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The language that I used here with sloppy about who is calling an end point I tried to clarify that a bit and then maybe we can pick up with you Dave Longley and then Joe.
[2022-10-18T19:32:17.609Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Sure I mean what I said Joe said better which was just we should be talking about which roles we expect to call the endpoints so that we can create the so people know how to create the appropriate authorization for those roles.
[2022-10-18T19:32:19.215Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay sounds good Joe.
[2022-10-18T19:32:25.705Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You are muted still.
[2022-10-18T19:32:33.700Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep we can hear you.
[2022-10-18T19:33:00.444Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: How about now okay pretty much what Dave said I mean I think you know the key thing is some of these flows some of us have what we might call tribal knowledge about what's expected and so I think by defining who is actually expected to call what will help clarify what's the inside baseball and what's public facing and you know I think that's a better way to think about this internal external notion.
[2022-10-18T19:33:29.295Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	:+1:
[2022-10-18T19:33:30.500Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I just I want to really Hammer home that when we say who were talking about a role I think people got confused about that and they were thinking about you know individuals or that sort of thing all of our winter we talked about answering the question of who within the context of this API we're talking about a role that someone's playing and we have well-defined roles and if we're missing anything then that will should be surfaced through this exercise when we can have them.
[2022-10-18T19:34:03.952Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Rikes we didn't want to make a decision on this last week as we were doing it in a rush our is is everyone okay if we move away from the internal external language and we specify what roles are expected to call which end points.
[2022-10-18T19:34:04.329Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  in which.
[2022-10-18T19:34:10.692Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Are expected to be associated with which components.
[2022-10-18T19:34:22.898Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So the concrete PR is going to effectively be that missing thumbs-up from Greg and Brian Patrick go ahead Joe you're on the queue.
[2022-10-18T19:34:31.117Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Sorry I was just trying to thumbs up and it put me on the key.
[2022-10-18T19:34:44.191Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I like it floating across the screen it just makes me giggle silly.
[2022-10-18T19:34:54.707Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay that is kind of a pleasant I like the plus 1 but the thumbs up is like a much more pleasant sound yeah all right so let me try and write something here next to the steps are to raise up PR that.
[2022-10-18T19:35:02.591Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Notes to things for each endpoint.
[2022-10-18T19:35:16.319Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Is our cats worst.
[2022-10-18T19:35:34.705Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: One which role is expected which roles he's which roles are expected to which world are expected to call the endpoint and to which components those endpoints are expected to be.
[2022-10-18T19:35:36.386Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	/s/Is our cats worst.//
[2022-10-18T19:35:44.791Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right any objections as for that next step go ahead Patrick.
[2022-10-18T19:36:11.916Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Put a certain objection just have a really hard time sort of grasping these two statements so if we maybe take a more precise example let's say we have the important like get credentials you know just to get all the credentials so if we answer those two questions one which rolled is expected to call that endpoint what would the answer to that be.
[2022-10-18T19:36:20.376Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: What coordinator you mean.
[2022-10-18T19:36:27.058Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The issuer controller role is expected to come sorry thank you coordinator the issuer coordinator role is expected to call the get credentials and point.
[2022-10-18T19:36:32.423Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Which is on the issue or service.
[2022-10-18T19:36:34.256Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Well it's on the holder.
[2022-10-18T19:36:49.269Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): In my head it was very much a holder resource like a holder as potential and.
[2022-10-18T19:36:52.121Z]	<Dave_Longley>	sounds like doing this exercise will help! :)
[2022-10-18T19:36:59.585Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yes that's true yeah which is on the issuer sir hold on it let's do it let's do a simpler one to let me let me try and do is to start with a simpler one because that one's a bit confused as to whether holders or issuers should call that yeah yeah yeah that one's complicated so let's go to an easier one right credentials issue the.
[2022-10-18T19:37:15.035Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is expected to call the credentials issue endpoint in the credentials issue endpoint is expected to live on the issuer service.
[2022-10-18T19:37:41.278Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So that's a full stop that's an example of there that's an example there will be a PR Patrick that we can all look at in I'm sure there's going to be a debate over things like get credential right.
[2022-10-18T19:37:54.962Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah it's just a thing just a distinction of like what really is service means and this and I components so the like component okay you have the service which is a component and you would have like storage which is another component is that okay.
[2022-10-18T19:38:13.845Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah but to potentially a I mean I'm sure we're going to get I'm sure it's not going to be as easy as we're saying right here right I mean they're going to be ones like the get credentials and point which have been confused about exactly what they do.
[2022-10-18T19:38:21.688Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That meaning like you know it could be on any service really right because.
[2022-10-18T19:38:54.213Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Well because also like me like also again like I said that a lot but you know my point of reference is really a reason like an Aries agent can effectively play all role you know like an agent can as the capability to issue verify and store credential and presents so in my head like the distinction of those roles is more in the way that you will provision your agent and you're going to use it.
[2022-10-18T19:38:54.750Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  so I have a hard time understanding.
[2022-10-18T19:39:25.496Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): This all the segregation of components just from my point of reference I have known that limited experience I have and it's interesting I think it was Joe that mentioned there's like tribal knowledge I think use as a term and I think that's that's very true you know because I had a feeling even when I started to join here like.
[2022-10-18T19:39:25.886Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  there was a lot of.
[2022-10-18T19:39:37.685Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Things that seem that we're very clear amongst the people attending this meeting but from an outsider point of view it's not so evident.
[2022-10-18T19:39:39.715Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep yeah completely agree.
[2022-10-18T19:39:42.724Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Police yet won't you.
[2022-10-18T19:39:48.598Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So if I could I don't know if there's a queue here have you seen the figure to diagram in the VC API draft Patrick.
[2022-10-18T19:39:54.621Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Yes that the diagram with the if it's the one that I think so.
[2022-10-18T19:40:27.449Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Okay yeah that's definitely where we're trying to you know externalize that tribal knowledge it's currently out of date because all the apps we've decided renamed as coordinators but that's definitely the framework we're trying to tease out precisely because of the problems with Aries calling everything in agent and that it's hard to differentiate well what do you do when right so so this architecture breaks it all out so we can talk specifically about who needs what authors.
[2022-10-18T19:40:27.863Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  ation for what type of function.
[2022-10-18T19:40:36.249Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): I like what's the admin here like the the admin the sort of square with the stripes like what does that represent.
[2022-10-18T19:41:05.287Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Sure that's actually controversial so I'll take the the lumps on the confusion about that if there is any what that diagram means or what that element in that diagram means is that there is a way for the issuer to administer all of these services and it is probably not going to be standardized there was some initial thought from when I first presented this component I think did.
[2022-10-18T19:41:05.676Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  Petrie spoke up and said.
[2022-10-18T19:41:41.005Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: We're adamant that the administration side of it I don't really think we should standardize that feels to be spoke and I think I agree it might be nice to standardize it but first we need to get the functionality working so the point is there is some administrative interface in which the issuer would set some business rules they would set up the assets management and ditto the verifier would set up a pause management with the verifier Services they would set up the business rules with the verifier app so it's a conceptual block of this capability.
[2022-10-18T19:41:41.632Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  Billy has to be there but it's not expected to be standard.
[2022-10-18T19:41:48.295Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): You see interface you mean like a web interface or it's just an interface in general it could be any command-line tool or anything.
[2022-10-18T19:41:53.030Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Could be yes anything it could be a command-line tool could be a Json file.
[2022-10-18T19:41:58.129Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Okay just a way to input some configuration and rules.
[2022-10-18T19:42:20.827Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: That's right there the main thing if you look at the pattern right is the issuer the verifier and the holder only deal with the administrative interfaces which is that's their direct engagement with the system right the issuer is and then the loop when you get a credential issued they are in the loop when they set up the rules for how those credentials are going to be issued.
[2022-10-18T19:42:57.442Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah I mean this this diagram is actually holding together pretty well Joe you know I mean we've been I don't know why it was created nine months ago or something like that and it feels like it's doing a great job of at least getting us on the same page about the components in the system that said need edit access so that we can update these yeah yeah exactly.
[2022-10-18T19:43:12.690Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah I need to get you the new diagram right is is there an issue that is a PR I'm sorry is there a PR with the changing code a change in language that I could add the change the diagram to or something.
[2022-10-18T19:43:24.215Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Okay I'll go track that down then.
[2022-10-18T19:43:24.250Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: No yes yes there is yes there is let me I think it is one of the open PR's renamed app the coordinator yeah in here it's me asking you to.
[2022-10-18T19:43:29.934Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Rename "App" to "Coordinator": https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pull/308
[2022-10-18T19:43:50.853Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And ideally we would have something that what we've tended to do in the past is some kind of shared tool that we can link to with the chord diagram that we can then export the SVG because Respec supports it natively in the browser supported natively.
[2022-10-18T19:43:54.994Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah I'm I'm torn.
[2022-10-18T19:44:04.096Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Well anyway that's that's that's their the request is there out there anyway.
[2022-10-18T19:44:17.390Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah that I will definitely get an upgrade I also do would like to get towards SVG instead of this proprietary tool I use so let me let me wrestle with that but I will definitely get us an updated diagram.
[2022-10-18T19:44:39.029Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Great awesome thank you okay that's it for that issue we have 10 minutes before we are supposed to break so let's pick up Dimitri your issue around challenge Management in the DC API.
[2022-10-18T19:44:39.464Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Challenge management in the VC API
[2022-10-18T19:44:45.141Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead me tree.
[2022-10-18T19:45:04.134Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/310
[2022-10-18T19:45:09.306Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Actually right so can you hear me okay so in implementing the verification for example but also the supplies to The Exchange and point so we require a challenge to prevent replay attacks right the fact requires a challenge but it but it in implementing we're running into difficulties or these questions of.
[2022-10-18T19:45:09.637Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin:  so how do we.
[2022-10-18T19:45:17.724Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: That Challenge from the verifier to the client that's going to be it's going to be using it.
[2022-10-18T19:45:27.792Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Right so it the challenge mechanism sort of assumes that the.
[2022-10-18T19:45:34.247Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: The verifier in the exchange and point are sort of coupled.
[2022-10-18T19:45:40.212Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: And so do we.
[2022-10-18T19:45:46.940Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Hold on when when you when you say exchange and point at which component are you talking about.
[2022-10-18T19:45:47.733Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Which component does the exchange on point live on.
[2022-10-18T19:45:50.466Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: That's that's the question.
[2022-10-18T19:45:55.759Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Don't know we have an exchange API right like.
[2022-10-18T19:46:00.902Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Well every time it gets brought up I ask these questions.
[2022-10-18T19:46:09.304Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah it can yeah the exchange API can exist in theory on every single one of these control what's the word coordinator diamonds.
[2022-10-18T19:46:16.401Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: I mean it might need its own exchanger coordinator but so I don't know the answer to a question Joe.
[2022-10-18T19:46:44.890Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: And so one of the one of the proposed solutions that we've come up with but I've also seen other groups do the similar thing like like Dave Longley is to have a challenge management and point so my question to the group is has anybody else run into challenge management problems how do you provision a challenge and I'd love for Dave to to weigh in here go ahead and mono.
[2022-10-18T19:47:13.745Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Unfortunately Dave had to go it's but we can bring this up again next week I can kind of report I'm separated from what's going on with challenges today but there's an issue here is she 310 and so feel free to kind of take a look through that I think that's that's got the proposal for the challenge Management in point typically I know let's let's just talk about like.
[2022-10-18T19:47:14.233Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  there's a presumption.
[2022-10-18T19:47:32.853Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is a challenge and point on verifier on the verifier service at least it could be it could Exist Elsewhere but a coordinator can call a verifier service and say give me a challenge and then.
[2022-10-18T19:47:48.468Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Which which coordinator is calling is this is part of where I get lost with the exchanges and this this notion here and that the verifier at me to keep track of its own challenges but I'm not sure who it's exporting or giving them to.
[2022-10-18T19:48:16.919Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The verifier service let's just let's just hold it in on just the verifier right let's say there is an exchange and here's where the diagram might break down Joe so so on the verifier coordinator here there exists in exchanges in point right in if the verifier at any point needs to go hey I need you to do did off for example that's an example where you need a challenge right the verifier.
[2022-10-18T19:48:17.345Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  later would call the verifier.
[2022-10-18T19:48:50.772Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Sorry let me start from the very beginning the holder contacts the verifier and goes I want to engage in an exchange with you the verifier goes okay I need to did off this entity so I'm going to call the verifier service and ask the verifier service to generate a challenge for me verify our service generates a challenge which it remembers sends it back to the verifier app the verifier app then bundles that challenge in a verifiable presentation request.
[2022-10-18T19:48:51.163Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  East and sends it back to the holder.
[2022-10-18T19:48:56.092Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Why is it the verifier creating the challenge.
[2022-10-18T19:49:22.873Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Why is this verifier not creating the challenge the coordinator it's a design Choice the coordinator supposed to effectively have mostly business logic challenges aren't necessarily purely business logic it's something that like every sorry I shouldn't say that many services need that are that are kind of outside business logic you're not custom.
[2022-10-18T19:49:35.920Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So I argue that the the defense against man in the middle is a business logic we are saying we are doing this thing because we believe that someone could get in the flow here so we are placing an additional requirement on the rules.
[2022-10-18T19:49:48.425Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah but it's yeah I agree with you I agree with you I think it's so common that when these verify our services are deployed it may be more useful to have it there instead of on the verifier coordinator.
[2022-10-18T19:50:08.544Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I'm just right but I'm challenging that because it's the verifier who we need to protect for man-in-the-middle right so the verifier is the sole source of authority as to what challenge they should accept as soon as they export that to the verifier service they have to trust that the verifier service isn't leaking that information it seems like a weird.
[2022-10-18T19:50:08.932Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  security vulnerability to a.
[2022-10-18T19:50:18.186Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay well I mean let's let's let's see so I'll write that down this.
[2022-10-18T19:50:33.330Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Okay I can see topologically they're essentially at the end of the day the same it's just who's on the hook for making sure that that challenge is a unique nonce and I think it's a unique nonce and the coordinators domain not in the issuer's domain.
[2022-10-18T19:51:38.742Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I have 11 more now when you get that down -.
[2022-10-18T19:51:46.060Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay go ahead Joe.
[2022-10-18T19:52:19.578Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I actually thought it was essentially symmetric that because the verifier is the one who's I believe we expect to check so that's an interesting question as to whether or not it's the verifier checking that challenge if they are then we still have to communicate that challenge to them or communicate it by reference to the earlier request right so if we request a challenge from them then we have to Echo it back so I think we have to Echo it back anyway.
[2022-10-18T19:52:20.008Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  me either.
[2022-10-18T19:52:36.735Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So we think that net that we're better off just having they coordinator manage it and tell the tell this the verifier service what challenge they gave.
[2022-10-18T19:52:48.224Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: So in in discussing which component on the dryer diagram the API endpoint should live on I don't want to lose track of the higher-level question which is.
[2022-10-18T19:52:52.431Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Should we have a challenge and point in the first place.
[2022-10-18T19:53:00.328Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Well it depends on where you want to put it so that's.
[2022-10-18T19:53:06.505Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Everybody doesn't get away like it's my my question to the group is would others find it useful if we had such an endpoint.
[2022-10-18T19:53:38.676Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Wow let me push back on that because I don't think usefulness is enough of a threshold that's what I think I think what we're dealing with is whoo-hoo which owner of that functionality has the least security problems as a result of giving them ownership over that property and it seems to me that challenges are not designed to be exposed externally except through the path for which you were.
[2022-10-18T19:53:39.171Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  defending against man in the middle.
[2022-10-18T19:53:58.227Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So so you communicate it to the party and they communicate it back to you having another party in the loop feels like a security problem so I don't know why you would ever have such a API.
[2022-10-18T19:54:21.709Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q?
[2022-10-18T19:54:25.195Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah let me try and answer that the challenge management can be difficult and you know if the the idea here is the issue or services are expected their trusted components in the system like if the if the verifier coordinator can't trust its verifier service the all bets are off right because the verifier service can can say oh yeah that thing's a totally valid BC when it's not so one one.
[2022-10-18T19:54:25.894Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That we might need to think about here is.
[2022-10-18T19:54:28.639Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to say trust is not a blanket
[2022-10-18T19:54:57.451Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um the trust boundary for between the verifier coordinator and the verifier service the usefulness question that I think Dmitri was asking at least for digital bizarre was we don't want to have to force coordinators to do their own challenge management because it can get pretty onerous to do that ideally.
[2022-10-18T19:54:57.833Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  we'd want.
[2022-10-18T19:55:31.327Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That have the ability to Outsource it now you know coordinators can always decide I'm not going to Outsource my challenge management I'm going to do it internally that's always a thing right so it's exposure on the verifier service was meant to be merely a convenience function not an absolutely mandatory you have to call out to a verifier service to generate a challenge at least that's that's how we were thinking about it go ahead Joe.
[2022-10-18T19:55:51.712Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: The opponent will hold on you mind if I jump in at a data point the other thing I want to bring up is that there's challenge management challenge management across the high level areas on the diagram meaning if there's arguments to be made that they exchange endpoint lives on the issuer.
[2022-10-18T19:55:58.473Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Part of the diagram because the exchange and point is the thing that is issuing the credentials.
[2022-10-18T19:56:07.394Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: No it's not get Cricket credential is like I did I really don't understand that definition of Exchange.
[2022-10-18T19:56:11.274Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I'll get credential isn't doing that so we need to we need to.
[2022-10-18T19:56:15.883Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Credential is not at all.
[2022-10-18T19:56:27.381Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: So if exchanges is what I called to issue a credential then I really don't understand exchanges and that's what I heard you just say Dimitri that I.
[2022-10-18T19:56:50.357Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: That is the guy said that is what we're doing to issue credentials on like for example for learning credential wallet and the reason we're not using the issue and point is because it before exchanging there's several rounds of prerequisites that the wallet has to meet before before issuing could go ahead man.
[2022-10-18T19:57:08.449Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: And at no no I'm good with this being an opening of a messy conversation so I don't think we're going to resolve it here in a few minutes.
[2022-10-18T19:57:14.475Z]	<Mike_Varley>	thanks all!
[2022-10-18T19:57:25.672Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I was going to end the call cause we're two minutes over but I know Joe you were on the Queue so we'll pick this up okay okay okay the issue isn't resolved we'll discuss this next meeting okay that's it for the call today thank you everyone as always for the great engagement we will pick up here next week.

