[2020-06-15T14:56:43.199Z]	<larinyo>	larinyo
[2020-06-15T14:56:48.487Z]	<larinyo>	present+
[2020-06-15T14:56:57.744Z]	<Uli>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:00:41.612Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:00:58.574Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:01:04.836Z]	<hamza_ikram>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:01:07.809Z]	<alex>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:01:23.716Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Is the voice call on yet ?
[2020-06-15T15:01:24.804Z]	<JimG>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:01:31.823Z]	<larinyo>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:01:34.778Z]	<Uli>	@Simone yes
[2020-06-15T15:01:35.657Z]	<blazp>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:01:43.808Z]	<tzviya>	present+ Tzviya_Siegman
[2020-06-15T15:01:58.942Z]	<kimhd>	 https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-06-15T15:02:11.965Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-06-15T15:02:25.635Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-06-15T15:02:39.844Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-06-15T15:02:42.976Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:02:44.978Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:02:51.377Z]	<mikroyannidis>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:02:58.929Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:03:08.499Z]	<Alen-Horvat>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:04:06.180Z]	<Vince_BCdiploma>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:06:05.557Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: JamesChartrand
[2020-06-15T15:07:30.291Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:07:40.656Z]	<JamesChartrand>	kimhd
[2020-06-15T15:07:53.377Z]	<JamesChartrand>	kimhd: intros
[2020-06-15T15:08:33.095Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introduction & Reintroductions
[2020-06-15T15:08:59.688Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Vince_BCdiploma: intros building blockchain VC solution for higher ed
[2020-06-15T15:09:47.321Z]	<adamjlemmon>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:10:00.469Z]	<kimhd>	Reintroduction Dmitri Zagidulin
[2020-06-15T15:10:36.390Z]	<JamesChartrand>	dmitriz: intro involved in many specs, interested in credentials around education and other areas.  interested in building bridges between communities
[2020-06-15T15:10:48.843Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: European Blockchain Services Infrastructure
[2020-06-15T15:11:14.024Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:11:23.669Z]	<JamesChartrand>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:12:02.889Z]	<JamesChartrand>	nickname for speaker?
[2020-06-15T15:12:13.983Z]	<larinyo>	https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qyK6IZKjklWFPx0oZyR_qk1um6TeRwze/view?usp=sharing
[2020-06-15T15:12:17.965Z]	<kimhd>	larinyo
[2020-06-15T15:13:03.927Z]	<JamesChartrand>	larinyo: intro of talk
[2020-06-15T15:13:18.656Z]	<JamesChartrand>	got it - thanks kim
[2020-06-15T15:13:40.408Z]	<JamesChartrand>	larinyo: intro daniel
[2020-06-15T15:15:28.835Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Dominik_Beron_: intro business analyst and expert on project
[2020-06-15T15:15:56.885Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Alen-Horvat: working on project
[2020-06-15T15:16:31.278Z]	<JamesChartrand>	larinyo: background on EDCI
[2020-06-15T15:16:54.142Z]	<JamesChartrand>	larinyo:  slide 7 use cases
[2020-06-15T15:17:42.484Z]	<JamesChartrand>	larinyo: slide 8
[2020-06-15T15:18:54.379Z]	<JamesChartrand>	larinyo: slide 9 - EBSI timeline
[2020-06-15T15:19:07.528Z]	<JamesChartrand>	larinyo: slide 10
[2020-06-15T15:19:43.496Z]	<JamesChartrand>	larinyo: slide 12 overview
[2020-06-15T15:20:19.996Z]	<JamesChartrand>	larinyo: slide 13 - underlying tech - VC, identity
[2020-06-15T15:21:25.167Z]	<JamesChartrand>	larinyo: slide 14
[2020-06-15T15:22:29.658Z]	<JamesChartrand>	speaker nickname?
[2020-06-15T15:23:52.956Z]	<blazp__>	@James - Daniel_Du_Seuil
[2020-06-15T15:24:16.016Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: want more standardized interactions through VCs, VPs - slide 15
[2020-06-15T15:25:30.889Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: will need shared infrastructure, e.g., ledgers
[2020-06-15T15:26:11.337Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: working on version 2, working with market to ensure right focus
[2020-06-15T15:26:56.245Z]	<kimhd>	https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qyK6IZKjklWFPx0oZyR_qk1um6TeRwze/view
[2020-06-15T15:27:10.186Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik's nickname?
[2020-06-15T15:27:33.150Z]	<larinyo>	Erik Van Zuuren
[2020-06-15T15:29:25.710Z]	<kimhd>	James -- he's not in irc now. Just call him Erik
[2020-06-15T15:29:43.969Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik Van Zuuren: overview of legal requirements with electronic identities - slide 17
[2020-06-15T15:30:30.278Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik: description of ESSIF VC
[2020-06-15T15:30:46.160Z]	<JimKelly>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:30:58.028Z]	<JamesChartrand>	present+
[2020-06-15T15:31:48.757Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik: slide 18
[2020-06-15T15:33:14.800Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: overview of ESSIF vs eIDAS
[2020-06-15T15:33:48.790Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: slide 19
[2020-06-15T15:34:45.110Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: overview of cross border interactions
[2020-06-15T15:35:01.909Z]	<Daniel_Du_Seuil>	the complete legal report on link ssi-eidas can be found at https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/collection/ssi-eidas-bridge
[2020-06-15T15:36:18.221Z]	<larinyo>	slide 20
[2020-06-15T15:36:40.037Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: slide 20 - feature roadmap
[2020-06-15T15:37:05.520Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: for ESSIF under eIDAS
[2020-06-15T15:37:35.003Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: slide 21
[2020-06-15T15:39:25.306Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: we can provide more elaborate legal report
[2020-06-15T15:39:39.399Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: we will be sharing in the next month
[2020-06-15T15:40:22.223Z]	<JamesChartrand>	larinyo: open for questions
[2020-06-15T15:40:51.096Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-06-15T15:41:03.444Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-06-15T15:41:05.918Z]	<JamesChartrand>	kimhd: question about slide 16
[2020-06-15T15:42:24.498Z]	<JamesChartrand>	kimhd: verifiable credential hashes - how do they work with right to erasure, permanence.  is a hash sufficiently de-identified.  what tradeoffs did you make.  what determinations did you make re: GDPR
[2020-06-15T15:43:37.680Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to ask about DID method(s) supported.
[2020-06-15T15:44:30.025Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: will share GDPR study.  want to limit what can be traced back to individual.  We don't put VC on ledger, just the hash, maybe with start and end date.  doesn't show VC itself, just like a fingerprint
[2020-06-15T15:44:48.349Z]	<larinyo>	q?
[2020-06-15T15:45:09.245Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik: ongoing discussions re GDPR
[2020-06-15T15:45:46.041Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik: looking at legal implications.  might put pseudonyms for certain cases on ledger
[2020-06-15T15:46:13.236Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-15T15:46:15.797Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik: GDPR is a concern.  bottom line we do put things on ledger but minimize correlation
[2020-06-15T15:46:22.271Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-06-15T15:47:11.860Z]	<JamesChartrand>	ottonomy: question about VC and DIDs on slide 17.  what DID method is used and how id for individual is provisioned for individual
[2020-06-15T15:48:26.384Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik: not cast in stone yet.  we will allow users to create their own DIDs, and own wallets, but will put minimal requirements for DIDs.  DIDs need to be unique and you must be able to show control.  Will be used for authentication and we have minimal standards
[2020-06-15T15:48:36.210Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik: to meet legal requirements
[2020-06-15T15:48:42.548Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-06-15T15:48:51.922Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik:  exact format of DIDs are being fine tuned.
[2020-06-15T15:50:05.978Z]	<JamesChartrand>	kimhd: Anthony asked about VCs in XML to satisfy legal binding signatures.  How can we help - can CCG express XML serialization to help you?
[2020-06-15T15:50:28.165Z]	<JamesChartrand>	kimhd: Maybe jsonLD sigs would be acceptable.  what do you think we can do to help you.
[2020-06-15T15:51:10.863Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik: yes, we can align work.
[2020-06-15T15:51:50.635Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-15T15:51:54.475Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-06-15T15:51:55.260Z]	<JamesChartrand>	kimhd: with PESC XML transcripts we may have use cases that need XML VC support.  we've had discussions on mailing list.  starting to understand it is all doable.  wondering about overall priorities
[2020-06-15T15:52:20.706Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik: would be great to collaborate.  will have initial study available next week
[2020-06-15T15:53:11.995Z]	<JamesChartrand>	kimhd: In slide 17, W3C peer did is mentioned.  is that a work in progress?  are peer kids something you looked into and how will you use?
[2020-06-15T15:53:32.636Z]	<blazp>	q+ I have some problem with mic.. so if someone can read following question: Are you planning to add legal value to did's (for natural persons) without involving eIDAS? if yes... how feasible do you think this is..., since in 2020 neither all EU countries does not have eIDAS verified schemas...
[2020-06-15T15:54:06.735Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Daniel_Du_Seuil: peer dis are very interesting - less tracking, more secure, more privacy.  following interactions.  valuable concept to follow.
[2020-06-15T15:54:12.401Z]	<kimhd>	reference on peer dids: https://www.slideshare.net/SSIMeetup/peer-dids-a-secure-and-scalable-method-for-dids-thats-entirely-offledger-daniel-hardman
[2020-06-15T15:54:21.204Z]	<kimhd>	@blazp I will read it
[2020-06-15T15:54:37.604Z]	<blazp>	@kimhd thank you!
[2020-06-15T15:55:13.441Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Dominik_Beron_: everything boils down to privacy.  legal entities are less problematic than actual persons.  peer dids aren
[2020-06-15T15:55:35.221Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Dominik_Beron_: aren't necessarily stable.  We are looking at it.
[2020-06-15T15:57:14.162Z]	<by_caballero>	q+ to ask about authN using verif.ID
[2020-06-15T15:57:24.326Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik: much easier to implement anywise DID but might have GDPR issues - don't want to allow correlations.  if we correlate to a single number we will not get a good GDPR report.
[2020-06-15T15:57:26.163Z]	<larinyo>	q?
[2020-06-15T15:57:52.023Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik: we think we might have to go to peer dids
[2020-06-15T15:58:24.455Z]	<kimhd>	ack blazp
[2020-06-15T15:58:28.775Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-15T15:59:56.675Z]	<by_caballero>	q-
[2020-06-15T16:00:36.187Z]	<JamesChartrand>	Erik: a single European number is dangerous.  a verifiable id can be used with legal effect
[2020-06-15T16:49:07.533Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: connections?
[2020-06-15T16:49:13.869Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: disconnect edb
[2020-06-15T16:49:18.773Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: disconnect ef2
