Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-10-04-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-10-04-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2022-10-04

Agenda:
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/blob/main/AGENDA.md
Topics:
  1. IP Note, Agenda Review, Scribe Selection
  2. GitHub Issue & PR review
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Chris Abernethy, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, nis, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Ben - Transmute, vivien, 
  Orie Steele

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.

Topic: IP Note, Agenda Review, Scribe Selection

Chris_Abernethy: Actually Nis I would just like to mention that 
  many of the pull request involving the postman tests today are 
  likely to have conflicts in the embedded schema it so for those 
  that come up let's just discuss whether or not we feel 
  comfortable merging those after the conflict is resolved and I 
  can handle those after the call.

Topic: GitHub Issue & PR review

https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Chris_Abernethy: Sorry just let me get in the right order here 
  and it's okay so 396 is a pull request to make the type property 
  for the credential status object be required when the credential 
  status is present in the options when you're posting to 
  credentials issue this is an interesting one because if you see a 
  piece.
Chris_Abernethy: It soft on this I don't think either of these 
  are required the enclosing object or the type when using object 
  is present and I think the last action here was that you called 
  out to me that I should review the VCA Pi a and agree on a common 
  shape and that's what I discovered so I am not sure you know if 
  we didn't make this required and you in.
Chris_Abernethy:  included an empty.
Chris_Abernethy: This object in your options in a post to this 
  end point you know I don't really know what the behavior would be 
  whether it should be to proceed as though you had not presented 
  it at all or if it should use a specific default so I think that 
  we need to discuss if we aren't going to make this required and 
  leave it optional as you see API does what should the behavior be 
  if it's not there.
Chris_Abernethy:  or should we opted to.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yes the VC API is more loose than us we are 
  saying we will yes so yes that we are still compiling this API if 
  it is required.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Sorry go ahead.
Chris_Abernethy: I was going to say I think it is and I would I 
  would be inclined to say if you're going to include this this 
  object in the options then you need to specify the type otherwise 
  there's no point in including it at all and you may just as well 
  admit it.
Chris_Abernethy: His type is the only property of this object.
Chris_Abernethy: For this use.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/396
Chris_Abernethy: I think this was a dress my food at a subsequent 
  comment I did point to a lot of different specs and call out the 
  uses here and in our API the other use cases in the status update 
  and point when you're updating credential status and there's a 
  separate question there regarding Ray versus object but for the 
  purposes of arguing this point the type is required in that other 
  place.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/399
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/410
<chris_abernethy> I believe we skipped 407
Chris_Abernethy: I believe yeah we we created when we landed up 
  creating four to six for this and just using did web instead of 
  get issuer ID.
Chris_Abernethy: Was that was part of it that's that's the only 
  if it's done and I if I remember correctly we realized we don't 
  need to do this caching of the did for this purpose.
Chris_Abernethy: I think that's fine I do believe we skipped for 
  A7 though.
Chris_Abernethy: This was missing.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/421
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/399
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah I think I think we had agreed that we were 
  going to go ahead and Implement a method of etching the did Json 
  caching it and extracting the data as needed and that was on my 
  plate to do I have not gotten there yet.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/422
Chris_Abernethy: Okay so this is a similar to the other pull 
  request we discussed where there's a type property on the proof 
  and this is in reference to issue for 17 so the VC data model is 
  pretty clear about when you have an embedded digital proof the 
  specific method used must be included in that embedded proof 
  using the type property so this is a PR to make that type 
  property.
Chris_Abernethy: And now yeah it modifies a schemer adds 
  performance test.
Chris_Abernethy: That's pretty much it.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/423
Chris_Abernethy: Swan is mine as well and this is in reference to 
  his she 4:15 this is another one that brings us in line with the 
  VC data model and if you see data model says that verifiable 
  credentials and presentations must have a type property is any 
  credential or presentation it doesn't have one is not verifiable 
  so cannot be a verifiable credential or verifiable presentation.
Chris_Abernethy: Property has to be one or more you our eyes and 
  our current schema allows the type to be an empty array which 
  does not conform to one or more so this is a PR to require that 
  that element have at least one item in it.
Chris_Abernethy: So this modifies the schema it's a couple of 
  conformance tests.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/424
Chris_Abernethy: Yep so this is in response to 369 that I think 
  was opened by Vivian and it was simply pointing out that the open 
  API schema does not have a description for posting to the 
  presentations and points that's the oauth version presentation so 
  this simply modify schema and adds a description.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/425
Chris_Abernethy: This one is me yep so this PR does a couple of 
  things first it removes testing related to bad values improved I 
  created that has shunted over to issue 428 that will re add those 
  in a different format and this then adds positive testing to 
  ensure that whatever value is provided for proof created or 
  excuse me when proof created is emitted it checks to see that the 
  created value that is.
Chris_Abernethy: Turn from the implementation is.
Chris_Abernethy: About within 10 seconds of when the request was 
  submitted so that we can sort of confirm that the server is 
  correctly setting the creation time on these proofs.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/429
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/432
Chris_Abernethy: Yes so this one addresses the fact that we used 
  to obtain the issuer ID by making a did resolution call for did 
  web and then looking at also known as array to figure out who to 
  use as an issuer since we're no longer supporting the key we use 
  did web exclusively we can simply use the organization did web as 
  the issuer and we don't need to do this look up so this removes.
Chris_Abernethy: For the lookup and the code that used to look 
  up.
Chris_Abernethy: I also added a small check to handle errors 
  where the token cash did not previously exist I ran into that on 
  my new laptop so I just put in a guard there try catch.
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah I'll just do this one this morning.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  No I think this is fine I just I think this 
  was today I just didn't have a chance to review earlier yeah not 
  an issue yeah.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I will just give me one second.
Chris_Abernethy: I can say I don't know you mean ours is green.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/433
Chris_Abernethy: This is just simply adding an extra check to the 
  workflow that runs whenever the open API spec is modified so in 
  addition to preserving the Gamal to Json format this also runs a 
  linter to make sure the uml is not malformed and this was 
  triggered because last week I discovered some printing errors in 
  the yellow.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/410
Chris_Abernethy: I'm having trouble remembering precisely whether 
  or not this is I don't think it is because there are still cases 
  where you need to do did resolution.
Chris_Abernethy: To perform that and it was a caching mechanism 
  so that we're not making thousands of dude resolution calls.
Chris_Abernethy: But now with the changes that we merge today 
  this is confined to presentations.
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah let's keep this one.
Chris_Abernethy: I don't believe it created a new issue too.
Chris_Abernethy: Brother and you PR yet so let's let's hang onto 
  this one I'll create a new PR and then I will comment on this.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/583
Ben_-_Transmute: Makes me pretty happy too so basically we have 
  you ever accidentally had a savior that the wrong when a request 
  you might have run into this where all of a sudden the sea I will 
  start spinning out massive numbers of schema issues and so what I 
  did was I went through and fix all the schema issues and then I 
  enabled schema checking for.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah I think I think you had a you knocked a lot 
  of them out it wasn't it wasn't too bad the nice part about this 
  was was I had issue 560 where I did a script to look through all 
  of all the schemas that were wrong so that kind of gave me away 
  to Pace myself and kind of figure out what percent I was done and 
  as I went along but yep.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah this was a question regarding whether or 
  not we should remove credential status from the options in a 
  credential issue requests and I don't see a documented here but I 
  seem to remember talking about it and thinking that we should 
  probably should not.
Chris_Abernethy: And this was c i linked over to you some.
Chris_Abernethy: Just looking through to see I don't think that 
  they opted to remove that.
Chris_Abernethy: Food specifically asked why we are removing that 
  in a comment on August 23rd.
Chris_Abernethy: - suggested that perhaps it might become an 
  anti-pattern in time.
Chris_Abernethy: Was inclined to go with what was happening in 
  d.c. API and it does not appear as though it's been removed 
  there.
Chris_Abernethy: I would be okay with closing this.
Chris_Abernethy: We just had a commented.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/364
Chris_Abernethy: So this one is related to generating historical 
  index so that previous test results can be browsed I have not had 
  a chance to work on this.
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah results are being stored so nightly when 
  the the tests are run forget the exact mechanism but I believe 
  they're stored in a date specific folder and also in a folder 
  that's considered current so that way we have we have the 
  historical runs in archive folders but there's no easy way to 
  browse through them and this was to this P this issue is to 
  create some sort of a browsable index so that.
Chris_Abernethy: We could go back and forth and look at.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/368
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Let me find 
  my mute button.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Ryder has 
  been doing a big PR push Fair number of commercials touting their 
  New Logistics tracing.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Which just 
  Maps very well to traceability as far as I can tell I don't have 
  a contact with them it was more if anybody else had such contact 
  that they might be a useful people to bring in.
<orie> lets tweet at them a link to the repo.
<orie> :)
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Let me see if 
  it's still alive.
https://campaigns.ryder.com/SCS-ContactUs-Microsite?source=tv
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It does 
  redirect but it's live here's where it goes now.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): So yeah I 
  guess it remains sort of in limbo unless somebody else has a 
  contact.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/371
Chris_Abernethy: So this one is mine this is in regards to the 
  published documentation for how we distribute meeting agenda and 
  notes Etc and as Ted pointed out a more common way of doing this 
  perhaps even a better way of doing this is to instead of having 
  our standing agenda and get to rather send it out to the email 
  list as other groups due to announce our agenda and linked to 
  that.
Chris_Abernethy: In our meeting notes.
Chris_Abernethy: Simply linking to a standing agenda and suggest 
  that if it changes will mail it out it's rather difficult for 
  someone to determine whether we simply forgot to mail it out or 
  there were no changes so I think that suggestion is probably a 
  better way to move forward.
Chris_Abernethy: So I said I think this is ready for PR.
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah well I think I think the pr shooting 
  documentation for of the procedure.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/349
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah so this one we had a bunch of back and 
  forth on how we should respond if the presented issue ID is not 
  known to implementation we landed on for 22 and this one is ready 
  for PR but have not had time to him.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/342
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah I believe this is going to be closed.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/333
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah so this this was a question on whether or 
  not we should do specifically that and as we have been doing in 
  many other places we're moving away from that and requiring array 
  of strings in these cases so I believe that this one can be 
  closed.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/379
Orie Steele:  Yep so I think we looked at the VC API and they 
  have the structure and we need to align with them or decide that 
  we're not going for one with them.
Orie Steele:  I'm looking more to mood and Maven that on this 
  front since they've indicated their support for the VC API let us 
  know what you think about this.
Chris_Abernethy: I'm so I apologize for jumping in but worry I 
  believe we are aligned with you Capi currently you have array of 
  objects we have array of objects I think I'm.
Orie Steele:  Yeah read this wrong then is it just like a human 
  error logic.
Chris_Abernethy: Well I think I'm in line with you and that it 
  should be an object not an array of objects.
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah currently we're aligned.
Orie Steele:  I'm - 12 changing it if we're aligned the next 
  change the next change we make should be only because what the 
  other guy came out of alignment.
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah I took a look at this today and if you 
  leave if you click through to.
<orie> Also, never trust the transcriber
<orie> its never accurate.
Chris_Abernethy: Your lines 30 link there nope that's not it I 
  apologize but somewhere if you go to the VC API and you look at 
  it for the update credentials and point which is what we're 
  talking about here they do use array of objects.
Orie Steele:  Yeah I don't think we should argue with them we 
  should just close this if we're an alignment and the person 
  closing it should leave a comment saying I checked and we're in 
  the linemen and tears.
Chris_Abernethy: I will enter that comment now.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/402
Orie Steele:  I'm mostly linking it to share that it exists it 
  covers Postman APC is example seem relevant yeah it was just to 
  put it on the radar for people to review see if it's relevant or 
  useful.
Orie Steele:  Comments on it.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/359
Chris_Abernethy: I am done and this is just a placeholder to.
Chris_Abernethy: Implement conformance testing for the credential 
  status and points.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/307
Ben_-_Transmute: I'm guessing this one still relevant just in 
  terms of consistency with our.
Ben_-_Transmute: Reading repository Chris just said that this was 
  a lower priority and unless someone wants to take it from him 
  it's probably just going to be in the queue.
Ben_-_Transmute: But I guess so if there's a read me that it's 
  consistent with our existing style than yes.
Ben_-_Transmute: Yeah but I don't think there's any any 
  disagreement with how should proceed yeah.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/325
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/39
Ben_-_Transmute: Let's do it.
Chris_Abernethy: I think maybe my story has to be updates.
Orie Steele:  I closed it.
Orie Steele:  I'm sure someone will find a way to reopen it but 
  after this many meetings with this many no updates think it's 
  appropriate not have to have this conversation again.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/363
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think it's more Stockholm syndrome than 
  Nostalgia but like.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah this is a super basic winter linked to 
  the house at the collection thingy on Postman.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Take Chris offered to do it last time and 
  yeah.
Chris_Abernethy: I did actually started looking at this this 
  morning and I think it's still fairly straightforward it's just 
  read me updates but I think it's more than just links I think we 
  need a little bit of refactoring and instructions and how to sign 
  up to get you part of the test and how to import the conformance 
  and interop tests I don't think it's a big deal which I just 
  couldn't complete it before the meeting.
Chris_Abernethy: Yeah I don't think that's very helpful.
Chris_Abernethy: Simply looks I think we need a little bit more 
  instruction.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/377
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/389
Chris_Abernethy: I'm so this one is mine and this is a large 
  issue to track the removal of these of also known as and to begin 
  using did web instead of dookie we have done all these things 
  this could be closed.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/397
Chris_Abernethy: Yep you have done this this was done with PR 
  400.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/415
Chris_Abernethy: I believe this is still open because I have to 
  fix the conflict so when I fix that this will close 
  automatically.
Chris_Abernethy: It will close I linked it with fixes.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/416
Chris_Abernethy: All right so this one initially when I was 
  running - testing I was not running through all of the possible 
  type options so for example if a property needed to be a string I 
  was only testing if it failed if it was an array that's not 
  really inclusive enough we need to test if it fails it's an array 
  if it's an integer it's null if it's a Boolean Etc.
Chris_Abernethy: And I specifically ran into.
Chris_Abernethy: With some of my news testing where a value of 
  null did not fail properly in our implementation so adding all of 
  these tests is the better way to go rather than skipping some in 
  assuming they will do the right thing.
Chris_Abernethy: This is ready for VR.
Chris_Abernethy: And I'll sell for sign this one.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/401
Chris_Abernethy: I don't but I've been following this one.
Orie Steele:  That's that's Christina yesterday from Microsoft or 
  Foundation.
Orie Steele:  I can summarize I mean essentially these confused 
  by why we're using the word did off because did off is not really 
  defined anywhere including really in the ccg but it is closest to 
  being defined in the ccg A and the VP request back which is the 
  spec we use to manage the presentations available and 
  presentations admissions data models in the API that we have 
  here.
Orie Steele:   So she.
Orie Steele:  Can confused why we're talking about it off because 
  in the circles that she runs in it's either open ID connect or 
  it's you're not you not doing it our new forms of presentations 
  like oauth presentations don't have any off piece so she's really 
  just reading spec and being confused by our general weakness and 
  communicating the different presentation scenarios and what they 
  mean for the.
Orie Steele:   Holder binding for credentials.
Orie Steele:  A pull request that updated the language in those 
  sections may be making it clear when holder binding is present 
  when it's not when you office used when it's not when VP request 
  spec is used when it's not that's that's what would help resolve 
  this issue my opinion.
Chris_Abernethy: I'm happy to do the minutes if we could close 
  #406.
Chris_Abernethy: This one is I was going to differentiate the 
  responses from credentials verify into two different 400 errors 
  and or a pointed out rather correctly that if the signature is 
  invalid that's that's not a 400 that's a 200 with a verification 
  failed response so this should just be closed.
