Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-09-27-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-09-27-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2022-09-27

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Sep&period_year=2022&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io)
Present:
  Russell Hofvendahl (mesur.io), nis, Paul Dietrich GS1, Chris 
  Abernethy, vivien, Orie Steele, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), Sam Curren, Ted Thibodeau

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) is scribing.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/581
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/582
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/396
<transcriber> Chris_Abernethy: Yes can you guys hear me okay.
Nis: vocab first
<transcriber> Chris_Abernethy: All right so this is in response 
  to issue number 395 and that has to do with making sure that when 
  you post an actual status options to the potential issue endpoint 
  that if you do post that has an optional item you must include 
  the type property and that is because you see API is got that in 
  there it's very clearly required.
<transcriber> Chris_Abernethy:  but we had it as an option.
<transcriber> Chris_Abernethy: Our schema and I think we all 
  agreed this is the right thing to do last time we talked about it 
  but my mood had asked if we could also do this for the update 
  credential status endpoint and I went to do that this morning and 
  realized that we had already done that quite some time ago with 
  PR 366 so would like moved to re-review this before we merge but 
  I think this is probably ready to go.
<transcriber> Chris_Abernethy: I did yeah I requested a review 
  from him but it was just this morning so he probably doesn't have 
  hasn't had time to look at it.
<transcriber> Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Looks like the 
  transcriber's picking up everyone but Nis
Chris: this in response to 395, making sure when you post status 
  options to cred issue endpt, must include type property (if 
  optional).
Sam Curren:  I sure Sam could I work for in d.c. oh and have been 
  involved in the did come efforts at the diff and it involved in 
  the areas Community as well.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/399
<transcriber> Chris_Abernethy: I was queuing to say exactly what 
  you just said.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/407
<transcriber> Chris_Abernethy: Yeah this is just for quote 
  consistency to replace bubbles.
Nis: ok so 396, leaving that for another week. then 399 here, in 
  doubt this is how we'll do it
Orie Steele:  Except probably are we looking at for a seven.
Orie Steele:  At one point requested changes we had talked about 
  it I'm okay merging over top of if you've addressed the changes 
  yep yeah.
Orie Steele:  We're looking at 407?
<transcriber> Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Do you want to kick 
  the transcriber this is like the notes would be pretty confusing.
Orie Steele:  Yes I think we ought to disable the transcriber and 
  take normal scribe notes from now on.
Orie Steele:  Tired of having it say things that I didn't say 
  that are offensive that going man.
<transcriber> Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Can you just get it 
  like any other.
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/410
Nis: some checks failing on... will have to look on this and come 
  back to fix
Nis: again, abt moving to multitenant platform support, some diff 
  ways to do that
Orie Steele: +1 Chris
Chris: each part of conformance suite should only be testing one 
  endpt
Nis: & way you suggest it, take hacky script, make proper method 
  out of it, use it whenever we need it
Chris: suggest in root folder in conformance suite, add root 
  function similar to how get token and caches, gets json caches
Orie Steele:  Not sure if these PRs or change suggestions align 
  with what will say
Chris: if we tell them to provide us w did web, save themn from 
  implementation, not going thru extra step of providing did url is 
  easier
Orie Steele:  Yes, we should communicate reqs, reqs should be 
  minimized
Chris: agree, but not sure relates to PR
Nis: not completely unrelated. if want to do generic could do any 
  of this stuff here
Orie Steele:  Pr 410 abt did web endpt
Chris: so yes, way this is implemented is one way, but disagree 
  with how
Orie Steele:  But primarily just exchange endpts not all in test?
Nis: also issuer id
Orie Steele:  A given, but exchange endpts DO need to resolve in 
  did web
Chris: think abt exchange endpt testing
Orie Steele:  So your proposal, before running exchange endpt 
  tests, make request cache results go to cache for that
Chris: but resolve did web talking about [something]?
Orie Steele:  So to be clear, wouldn't be did resolution endpt, 
  convert did web string to url, [...], access cache when needed
Chris: & there'd be entire separate suite
Nis: two things still need to discuss about issuer id
Chris: agree, that's a holdover
Orie Steele:  Yes, legacy
Nis: so, limited to exchange endpt
Paul: authenticated did resolution, don't know, someone post a 
  link?
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/openapi/#get-/identifiers/-did-
Orie Steele:  Every implementer stands up software implementation 
  of spec desscribing http endpts
Paul: why that way? why need auth'd?
Orie Steele:  Thinking abt software implementations as being 
  exposed. tryna test that sorta implementation
Nis: so next steps, how we move fwd
Chris: would like new PR, leave this open will base on
Nis: talk about your suggestion, or belongs in other repo
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/410#:~:text=https%3A//github.com/transmute%2Dindustries/verifiable%2Ddata/blob/main/packages/did%2Dweb/src/convertDidToEndpoint.ts
https://github.com/transmute-industries/verifiable-data/pull/206
Chris: PR'd this earlier today 
  https://github.com/transmute-industries/verifiable-data/pull/206
Orie Steele:  Surprised we didn't encounter before, but looks 
  great thanks
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/411
Nis: so once you're done chris we'll close this as well
Chris: one of mine. we had convo in 351 and related issues, 
  whether or not when post soln issue whether related should be 
  created for proof
Nis: just approved
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/351
Orie Steele:  (Abt 351) number one prob is if want to match exact 
  signature, won't be able to do that, server will always assign 
  new date
Chris: came up bc some question abt if not testing should [...]
Orie Steele:  Yeah on test site should be valuable test, set it 
  if defaulted correctly
Chris: don't care if we incl or not, I want to know how test this
Orie Steele:  If user doesn't supply created date then set by 
  server
Chris: decline, 351 indicate not going to remove it, going to 
  need to modify 352 which expects to see it
Orie Steele:  Nasty edge case, same applies to [...], set created 
  as caller, ask for jwt, expect iat value in jwt
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/412
Nis: ok let's push fwd, 412, also chris
Chris: for adding some positive testing
Orie Steele:  Not specific to pr but
Orie Steele:  Chose did key bc easy, chose [y] bc easy
Chris: don't have specific knowledge, but general, going with 
  known implementation you don't like, in project, early, bad idea
Orie Steele:  Think did jwk is better, supports [?] curves
Nis: I'm good with this one, then
Orie Steele:  Will file issue
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/413
Nis: merging this one
Chris: followup on change made earlier to remove "code" prop from 
  errors
Nis: objections?
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/414
Nis: merging then
Chris: purpose, introduce two new specific error responses to use 
  when request boyd not up to signature, second [...]
Nis: so not adding code just description
Chris: still 400, just diff message
Nis: one approval. anyone else?
Orie Steele:  Looking at now, looks good to me
Orie Steele:  Wait, invalid sig in request body, not 400, client 
  not wrong for asking to verify sig that's malformed
Chris: ok, will add note then let's move on
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/419
Nis: next 419, another chris, last for today
Chris: a couple errors in openapi spec, fixed
Chris: conflict so will fix, happy to merge it offline
Nis: will give note to merge
Orie Steele:  So are folks expecting be able to load spec, 
  integrate, target reome server, [?] to remove server, request 
  with authorization
Orie Steele:  If api spec doesn't work for that haven't built 
  valid api spec
Chris: in favor, new issue
Orie Steele:  Should work, nis, but assigning you to create that 
  issue
Orie Steele:  This works afaik for our endpts, if not working for 
  this item we should help
