[2022-09-27T17:29:32.209Z]	Agenda: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/blob/main/AGENDA.md
[2022-09-27T17:29:32.210Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-09-27T17:29:32.212Z]	<nis>	present+
[2022-09-27T17:29:44.001Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-09-27T17:30:40.637Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	present+
[2022-09-27T17:31:03.041Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-09-27T17:31:22.030Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-09-27T17:31:22.031Z]	Topic: IP Note, Agenda Review, Scribe Selection
[2022-09-27T17:31:58.934Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-09-27T17:31:58.934Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2022-09-27T17:33:10.574Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2022-09-27T17:33:10.575Z]	Topic: GitHub Issue & PR review
[2022-09-27T17:33:11.266Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2022-09-27T17:33:25.117Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/581
[2022-09-27T17:34:47.163Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/582
[2022-09-27T17:35:53.151Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2022-09-27T17:36:06.075Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/396
[2022-09-27T17:36:08.910Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yes can you guys hear me okay.
[2022-09-27T17:36:09.948Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: vocab first

two PRs, both nis

first, add type to ctpat, credsubject to ctpat

brought up by charge of undefined terms

only single approval. anyone want to approve, so we can merge?

no objections, going to push ahead

next, same sort, on import and packing list a few missing types, missing arrays, copy/paste errors - little of the usual that lead to undef terms.

objections to 582? merging

that's it for trace vocab, switching to interop

from bottom, chris you have first one 396
[2022-09-27T17:36:33.679Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-09-27T17:36:40.925Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: All right so this is in response to issue number 395 and that has to do with making sure that when you post an actual status options to the potential issue endpoint that if you do post that has an optional item you must include the type property and that is because you see API is got that in there it's very clearly required.
[2022-09-27T17:36:41.259Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy:  but we had it as an option.
[2022-09-27T17:37:14.570Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Our schema and I think we all agreed this is the right thing to do last time we talked about it but my mood had asked if we could also do this for the update credential status endpoint and I went to do that this morning and realized that we had already done that quite some time ago with PR 366 so would like moved to re-review this before we merge but I think this is probably ready to go.
[2022-09-27T17:37:27.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I did yeah I requested a review from him but it was just this morning so he probably doesn't have hasn't had time to look at it.
[2022-09-27T17:37:34.588Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-09-27T17:37:38.783Z]	<Sam_Curren>	present+
[2022-09-27T17:37:44.654Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2022-09-27T17:37:52.093Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Looks like the transcriber's picking up everyone but Nis
[2022-09-27T17:38:03.529Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: this in response to 395, making sure when you post status options to cred issue endpt, must include type property (if optional).

we agreed this was right, would like mahmoud to re-review this before merge though [reasons]
[2022-09-27T17:38:23.852Z]	<Transcriber>	Sam_Curren: I sure Sam could I work for in d.c. oh and have been involved in the did come efforts at the diff and it involved in the areas Community as well.
[2022-09-27T17:38:44.715Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/399
[2022-09-27T17:38:55.284Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q+
[2022-09-27T17:39:40.296Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q-
[2022-09-27T17:39:53.091Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I was queuing to say exactly what you just said.
[2022-09-27T17:39:57.543Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/407
[2022-09-27T17:40:38.597Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah this is just for quote consistency to replace bubbles.
[2022-09-27T17:41:56.661Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: ok so 396, leaving that for another week. then 399 here, in doubt this is how we'll do it

this is a topic this and a few other PRs

with a token call [something]. we had this discussion on 410 which is why we should continue with this

also said we'd make diagram, in future PR, so I'd suggest we come back to this

next 407, don't know how update vc that doesn't make sense

chris seeing your comments now

before we discuss more, next discussion is how much we want to be strict, let's focus on schemas maybe do that next week

no approvals, not going to merge

orie I believe I solved your comments
[2022-09-27T17:41:58.425Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Except probably are we looking at for a seven.
[2022-09-27T17:42:14.523Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: At one point requested changes we had talked about it I'm okay merging over top of if you've addressed the changes yep yeah.
[2022-09-27T17:42:20.322Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: we're looking at 407?

I'm ok merging if you've adjusted changes
[2022-09-27T17:42:35.322Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Do you want to kick the transcriber this is like the notes would be pretty confusing.
[2022-09-27T17:42:42.632Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Yes I think we ought to disable the transcriber and take normal scribe notes from now on.
[2022-09-27T17:42:50.685Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Tired of having it say things that I didn't say that are offensive that going man.
[2022-09-27T17:42:58.281Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Can you just get it like any other.
[2022-09-27T17:44:05.111Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/410
[2022-09-27T17:44:08.083Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: some checks failing on... will have to look on this and come back to fix

410, chris?
[2022-09-27T17:45:04.873Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: again, abt moving to multitenant platform support, some diff ways to do that

I've suggested, on unauthenticated call for did doc, rip did apart make request directly

idea, for all next did docs do for proper result get authenticated

chris?
[2022-09-27T17:45:23.001Z]	<Orie>	+1 chris
[2022-09-27T17:46:01.330Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: each part of conformance suite should only be testing one endpt

[something] resolution second endpt, if that fails then it fails for not obvious reason

don't want to create authenticated process
[2022-09-27T17:46:01.372Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2022-09-27T17:46:27.124Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: & way you suggest it, take hacky script, make proper method out of it, use it whenever we need it
[2022-09-27T17:47:04.509Z]	<nis>	ack orie
[2022-09-27T17:47:06.101Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: suggest in root folder in conformance suite, add root function similar to how get token and caches, gets json caches

also how converting did IDfiers into urls, there's bug, created PR for
[2022-09-27T17:49:28.339Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: not sure if these PRs or change suggestions align with what will say

there's set of req's we communicate to parties who want to pass the test

what we've danced arnd, is specific did a requirement communicated/not, or is did being inferred from api endpt?

for this kind of test suite, yes tell people how it'll be. ok to say "you're required to incl did web, assertion"

might not say in mnore generic standards context

here in agreement did web is spec using to pass tests

case of, here's did web intending to use, test req

want simple exp for folks, doing backflips maybe there's simpler way by telling them to incl did web
[2022-09-27T17:50:03.648Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: if we tell them to provide us w did web, save themn from implementation, not going thru extra step of providing did url is easier
[2022-09-27T17:50:18.183Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: yes, we should communicate reqs, reqs should be minimized
[2022-09-27T17:50:30.023Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: agree, but not sure relates to PR
[2022-09-27T17:50:47.873Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: not completely unrelated. if want to do generic could do any of this stuff here
[2022-09-27T17:52:13.563Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: pr 410 abt did web endpt

did web endpt used to create did web

so this endpt can't be auth protected or did web isn't resolvable

in validating that participant has version available, performance req is do round trip request

convert to endpt, if I get response then it's good

chris do you feel that's right approach for validating it's according to reqs?
[2022-09-27T17:53:09.459Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: so yes, way this is implemented is one way, but disagree with how

think we should do in function, utility area

goal to provide way to extract from implementations did web certain presentation points, like id
[2022-09-27T17:53:28.683Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: but primarily just exchange endpts not all in test?
[2022-09-27T17:53:32.275Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: also issuer id
[2022-09-27T17:53:45.012Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: a given, but exchange endpts DO need to resolve in did web
[2022-09-27T17:54:40.497Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: think abt exchange endpt testing

may have 75 tests. also make 75 auth'd requests?

my answer is no, don't want to, cause not testing authentifiers, not purpose of test

rather cache json, save that, pull out when needed
[2022-09-27T17:55:04.955Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: so your proposal, before running exchange endpt tests, make request cache results go to cache for that
[2022-09-27T17:55:15.847Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: but resolve did web talking about [something]?
[2022-09-27T17:56:13.618Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: so to be clear, wouldn't be did resolution endpt, convert did web string to url, [...], access cache when needed
[2022-09-27T17:56:22.227Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: & there'd be entire separate suite
[2022-09-27T17:56:42.127Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	q+ "Authenticated DID resolution?"
[2022-09-27T17:56:53.166Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q+
[2022-09-27T17:57:01.081Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: two things still need to discuss about issuer id

chris I think going in wrong direction. why make method generate that from base url? mistake?
[2022-09-27T17:57:08.147Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: agree, that's a holdover
[2022-09-27T17:57:12.721Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: yes, legacy
[2022-09-27T17:57:25.073Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: so, limited to exchange endpt
[2022-09-27T17:57:25.161Z]	<nis>	q?
[2022-09-27T17:57:32.522Z]	<nis>	ack paul
[2022-09-27T17:57:41.631Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	paul: authenticated did resolution, don't know, someone post a link?
[2022-09-27T17:58:03.938Z]	<nis>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/openapi/#get-/identifiers/-did-
[2022-09-27T17:59:05.816Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: every implementer stands up software implementation of spec desscribing http endpts

endpt of /identifiers looks like did resolution spec

we implement that endpt as describe interop arnd, with addnl requirement that must call that endpt

difference, anyone can call universal resolver, but auth'd did resolution endpt need scope for identifier and authentifier
[2022-09-27T17:59:14.544Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	paul: why that way? why need auth'd?
[2022-09-27T18:01:21.263Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: thinking abt software implementations as being exposed. tryna test that sorta implementation

currently resolver, dev friendly, not for public use

biz might stand up web server to host, not going to req auth

orie: not gonna, costs money, if bot finds nothing to stop big bill

so shoud probably secure endpts exposed

endpt we're talking abt is universal resolver with auth reqs, will work for any did endpt

we've only agreed to did web and did key

if you passed ion did, wouldn't resolve
[2022-09-27T18:02:12.379Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: so next steps, how we move fwd

chris, suggestion, in your turf but, suggest we merge this then give greenight to move code into service endpt & take it from here?
[2022-09-27T18:02:27.204Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: would like new PR, leave this open will base on
[2022-09-27T18:02:53.751Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: talk about your suggestion, or belongs in other repo
[2022-09-27T18:03:15.654Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/410#:~:text=https%3A//github.com/transmute%2Dindustries/verifiable%2Ddata/blob/main/packages/did%2Dweb/src/convertDidToEndpoint.ts
[2022-09-27T18:04:24.221Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/transmute-industries/verifiable-data/pull/206
[2022-09-27T18:04:42.075Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: PR'd this earlier today https://github.com/transmute-industries/verifiable-data/pull/206
[2022-09-27T18:05:02.545Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: surprised we didn't encounter before, but looks great thanks
[2022-09-27T18:05:41.589Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/411
[2022-09-27T18:05:43.491Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: so once you're done chris we'll close this as well

now next, 411
[2022-09-27T18:06:39.417Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: one of mine. we had convo in 351 and related issues, whether or not when post soln issue whether related should be created for proof

decided to remove that item from schema, modify some tests
[2022-09-27T18:06:46.687Z]	<nis>	q?
[2022-09-27T18:06:58.722Z]	<nis>	ack chris
[2022-09-27T18:07:26.002Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: just approved
[2022-09-27T18:07:47.304Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/351
[2022-09-27T18:08:48.079Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: (abt 351) number one prob is if want to match exact signature, won't be able to do that, server will always assign new date

useful for testing & backdating sigs, but pref would be if option remained but defaulted if not present
[2022-09-27T18:09:03.327Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: came up bc some question abt if not testing should [...]
[2022-09-27T18:09:23.512Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: yeah on test site should be valuable test, set it if defaulted correctly
[2022-09-27T18:09:41.358Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: don't care if we incl or not, I want to know how test this
[2022-09-27T18:10:02.760Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: if user doesn't supply created date then set by server
[2022-09-27T18:10:27.645Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: decline, 351 indicate not going to remove it, going to need to modify 352 which expects to see it
[2022-09-27T18:11:57.376Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: nasty edge case, same applies to [...], set created as caller, ask for jwt, expect iat value in jwt

might think iat is issuence state, ipf is issuance state though

have same scenario where, issuing jwt want to backdate the iat
[2022-09-27T18:12:03.577Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/412
[2022-09-27T18:12:12.894Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: ok let's push fwd, 412, also chris
[2022-09-27T18:12:51.171Z]	<Orie>	q+ to ask about point conversion
[2022-09-27T18:13:02.223Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: for adding some positive testing

typo in script, missing colon

changed issuer to did key

using fake did wasn't a good call tho, as nis brought up
[2022-09-27T18:14:10.234Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: not specific to pr but

we're aware elliptic curve point conversion bn [x and y] not a thing we should do moving fwd. afaik no one's updated to prevent that, mistake

wonder if did key stuff we're doing here, sorta related, is edt1509 right key type to be supporting?
[2022-09-27T18:15:28.169Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: chose did key bc easy, chose [y] bc easy

have these opportunities that [x] is easy, json web sigs should be default

just pointing out, these dependencies starting to show up, raising other q's as show up

might want to answer other q's as these show up

excited by edt1529 or better to stick with?
[2022-09-27T18:16:09.916Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: don't have specific knowledge, but general, going with known implementation you don't like, in project, early, bad idea

yes push fwd pr, but in general if there's a better one we should switch
[2022-09-27T18:16:45.639Z]	<nis>	ack russell
[2022-09-27T18:16:58.414Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q+
[2022-09-27T18:17:06.135Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: think did jwk is better, supports [?] curves
[2022-09-27T18:17:29.859Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q-
[2022-09-27T18:17:31.532Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: I'm good with this one, then

might be good topic for issue
[2022-09-27T18:17:32.854Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	+1 to new issue
[2022-09-27T18:17:35.985Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: will file issue
[2022-09-27T18:17:58.630Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/413
[2022-09-27T18:18:00.078Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: merging this one

next 413, chris
[2022-09-27T18:18:28.575Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: followup on change made earlier to remove "code" prop from errors

there were some remaining places where overriding base error, so pulling this out
[2022-09-27T18:18:32.211Z]	<nis>	q?
[2022-09-27T18:18:35.774Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: objections?
[2022-09-27T18:18:40.017Z]	<nis>	ack orie
[2022-09-27T18:18:43.255Z]	<Orie>	q-
[2022-09-27T18:19:13.223Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/414
[2022-09-27T18:19:13.598Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: merging then

414, chris
[2022-09-27T18:20:06.884Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: purpose, introduce two new specific error responses to use when request boyd not up to signature, second [...]

previously straight 400 bad request, wanted 400 error with specific that signature in request not correct
[2022-09-27T18:20:17.565Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: so not adding code just description
[2022-09-27T18:20:26.663Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: still 400, just diff message
[2022-09-27T18:21:20.085Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: one approval. anyone else?
[2022-09-27T18:21:33.462Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: looking at now, looks good to me
[2022-09-27T18:22:35.593Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: wait, invalid sig in request body, not 400, client not wrong for asking to verify sig that's malformed

I'd expect client to get 2xx with status indicating verification failed. client didn't make mistake, just asked question
[2022-09-27T18:22:47.144Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: ok, will add note then let's move on
[2022-09-27T18:23:08.551Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/419
[2022-09-27T18:23:16.622Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: next 419, another chris, last for today
[2022-09-27T18:24:09.644Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: a couple errors in openapi spec, fixed
[2022-09-27T18:24:53.623Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: conflict so will fix, happy to merge it offline
[2022-09-27T18:25:07.782Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: will give note to merge
[2022-09-27T18:25:44.408Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: so are folks expecting be able to load spec, integrate, target reome server, [?] to remove server, request with authorization

we want to support that correct?
[2022-09-27T18:26:19.122Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: if api spec doesn't work for that haven't built valid api spec

I think we should push

pick server,m have secrets, enter them, try it out have it work
[2022-09-27T18:26:25.119Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: in favor, new issue
[2022-09-27T18:26:51.312Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: should work, nis, but assigning you to create that issue
[2022-09-27T18:27:06.127Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: this works afaik for our endpts, if not working for this item we should help
