[2020-06-02T15:59:51.311Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:00:48.206Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:01:34.411Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:01:48.471Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:01:50.387Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:01:59.046Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:02:03.851Z]	<GeunHyung_Kim>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:02:17.723Z]	<david_mason>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:02:24.758Z]	<markus_sabadello_>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:02:24.998Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:02:27.767Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:02:37.917Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Jun/0001.html
[2020-06-02T16:03:33.732Z]	<rhiaro>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:03:44.639Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-06-02T16:03:52.664Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-06-02T16:03:56.407Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:03:59.191Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-06-02T16:04:12.921Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-06-02T16:04:31.262Z]	<manu>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:04:32.777Z]	<Andrew_Johnston>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:04:35.244Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:04:50.659Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:04:51.681Z]	<dlongley>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:05:00.767Z]	<burn>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:05:18.674Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-06-02T16:06:09.973Z]	<wayne>	mark these words, 2020 will be the year of the desktop linux
[2020-06-02T16:06:28.727Z]	<wip>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:06:38.813Z]	<gannan>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:06:41.294Z]	<markus_sabadello_>	scribe+
[2020-06-02T16:06:42.155Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: markus_sabadello_
[2020-06-02T16:06:43.793Z]	<jonathan_holt>	present+ jonathan_holt
[2020-06-02T16:06:46.264Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:06:48.224Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:07:01.933Z]	<manu>	voip: noise?
[2020-06-02T16:07:03.262Z]	<by_caballero>	and feeling guilty about never scribing but have very unreliable audio
[2020-06-02T16:07:04.496Z]	<markus_sabadello_>	Topic: Introductions and reintroductions
[2020-06-02T16:08:35.478Z]	<kimhd>	Jorge Prado, DIACC
[2020-06-02T16:08:54.007Z]	<Jorge>	Jorge del Prado :)
[2020-06-02T16:09:17.193Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:09:18.533Z]	<kimhd>	Don Yaugh of DIACC
[2020-06-02T16:09:35.920Z]	<kimhd>	Andrew Johnston DIACC Two Keys
[2020-06-02T16:09:42.173Z]	<brent_>	present+
[2020-06-02T16:10:25.440Z]	<kimhd>	David Mason Gov of Canada
[2020-06-02T16:10:32.281Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-06-02T16:10:46.723Z]	<MK>	Martin Kuo from Peoples Group, Member of DIACC (from Canada)
[2020-06-02T16:11:03.420Z]	<kimhd>	http://www.cvent.com/d/fhqnf3/4W
[2020-06-02T16:11:19.796Z]	<by_caballero>	wait wut!?
[2020-06-02T16:12:10.454Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-ed/blob/gh-pages/README.md
[2020-06-02T16:12:18.160Z]	<by_caballero>	https://imgflip.com/i/43pyvk
[2020-06-02T16:13:45.515Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.eventbrite.com/e/dif-face-to-face-virtual-tickets-106632396368
[2020-06-02T16:14:12.866Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-06-02T16:14:51.506Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/105
[2020-06-02T16:15:33.385Z]	<manu>	+1 to close W3C DVCG
[2020-06-02T16:16:15.497Z]	<by_caballero>	https://66.media.tumblr.com/34f8917b16ab22a3c5ff16e050e96a7e/tumblr_pfqdmuyljy1rolr3a_400.jpg
[2020-06-02T16:17:06.235Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-02T16:18:04.477Z]	<wayne>	pick a screen sharing solution issue: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/126
[2020-06-02T16:18:38.894Z]	<markus_sabadello>	I'm sorry my connection dropped right after I volunteered as scribe.. :( I can continue now.
[2020-06-02T16:18:45.858Z]	<markus_sabadello>	scribe+
[2020-06-02T16:19:34.218Z]	<brent_>	is it a vote per ccg member, or per member organization?
[2020-06-02T16:19:38.607Z]	<markus_sabadello>	ChristopherA: We have asked Orie_ , identitywoman and Dan to help tally the results, which will be announced at the next meeting.
[2020-06-02T16:19:50.521Z]	<identitywoman>	yes
[2020-06-02T16:19:52.673Z]	<Orie_>	I'd prefer not to
[2020-06-02T16:19:54.134Z]	<markus_sabadello>	JoeAndrieu: Do we have confirmation from all three that they will help?
[2020-06-02T16:20:03.198Z]	<markus_sabadello>	ChristopherA: Orie_ are you on board?
[2020-06-02T16:20:32.996Z]	<chriswinc>	I volunteer to count.
[2020-06-02T16:20:38.078Z]	<markus_sabadello>	JoeAndrieu: We also have to figure out what email alias we are using, then we'll send it out by announcement
[2020-06-02T16:20:38.857Z]	<brent_>	q+
[2020-06-02T16:20:54.154Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2020-06-02T16:20:59.386Z]	<markus_sabadello>	brent_: Is it a vote per CCG member, or per member organization?
[2020-06-02T16:21:10.575Z]	<kimhd>	ack brent_
[2020-06-02T16:21:12.347Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: I thought per member, joe, christopher, is that right?
[2020-06-02T16:21:29.321Z]	<burn>	q+
[2020-06-02T16:21:34.516Z]	<markus_sabadello>	ChristopherA: My understanding it's per member (do you show up in the members list?)
[2020-06-02T16:21:53.484Z]	<manu>	wait, per CCG member (individual) or per CCG member company (individuals and per company)
[2020-06-02T16:21:58.659Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-06-02T16:21:59.794Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/participants
[2020-06-02T16:22:00.217Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-02T16:22:01.016Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: On the W3C CCG site, there's a list of people who have officially signed up
[2020-06-02T16:22:06.123Z]	<gannan>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/participants
[2020-06-02T16:22:18.006Z]	<burn>	q-
[2020-06-02T16:22:33.407Z]	<markus_sabadello>	JoeAndrieu: You have to have been a member at the time of the announcement
[2020-06-02T16:22:35.673Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-02T16:22:44.095Z]	<kimhd>	ack heathervescent
[2020-06-02T16:23:03.504Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: Just wanted to get clarity on the date that people had to join by. You guys haven't stated that date.
[2020-06-02T16:23:32.998Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: There are also people who follow this.. Do people have to join when the election was announced.
[2020-06-02T16:23:45.240Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	May 12 was the date of the announcement
[2020-06-02T16:23:59.156Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: There might be people who want to participate who were less interested in participating prior to knowing that an election would be possible.
[2020-06-02T16:24:18.726Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Were we clear at the time that there would be a cut off date?
[2020-06-02T16:24:40.419Z]	<manu>	q+ to note that he didn't see a cut off date either for "who can vote"
[2020-06-02T16:25:14.916Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: I never heard any explicit date until today.. We want the right people to vote, but there was not awareness that there was going an opportunity to have a vote.
[2020-06-02T16:25:21.836Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+ to cite the announcement email at https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020May/0104.html
[2020-06-02T16:25:36.937Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: We didn't know what election protocol to follow, we don't want to cut off people's ability to participate
[2020-06-02T16:25:52.475Z]	<markus_sabadello>	heathervescent: I do think there's a question in my mind since I didn't hear a particular cut off date until now.
[2020-06-02T16:26:01.264Z]	<kimhd>	ack manu
[2020-06-02T16:26:07.256Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Agree with heathervescent , I was not aware there was going to be a cut off date.
[2020-06-02T16:26:28.345Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: We should point to a place with a public record of a cut off date.
[2020-06-02T16:26:40.440Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-02T16:26:45.044Z]	<manu>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/participants
[2020-06-02T16:26:45.302Z]	<kimhd>	ack manu
[2020-06-02T16:27:02.057Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: I wanted to clarify, who can vote? Is this an individual based vote, or a company based vote?
[2020-06-02T16:27:28.125Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: E.g. Digital Bazaar has multiple people come to the meeting. I feel uncomfortable having an individual based vote, given the size of some companies.
[2020-06-02T16:27:54.097Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: It shoud be one member - one vote. As an individual you get one vote. As a large company you also get one vote. This makes it a community group.
[2020-06-02T16:27:55.267Z]	<burn>	q+
[2020-06-02T16:28:42.434Z]	<kimhd>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-06-02T16:28:42.517Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: manu I get your point, but if you look at actual people who are registered, there are not too many people per company
[2020-06-02T16:29:08.474Z]	<markus_sabadello>	JoeAndrieu: Regarding the posted record, this link was the follow-up to the announcement made on May 12th
[2020-06-02T16:29:16.685Z]	<markus_sabadello>	JoeAndrieu: So if you were not a member on May 12th, you don't get to vote
[2020-06-02T16:29:17.537Z]	<manu>	"Nominations and voting are open to all current CCG members as of the election announcement on Tuesday, May 12."
[2020-06-02T16:29:17.736Z]	<dlongley>	Voting announcement: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020May/0104.html
[2020-06-02T16:29:19.735Z]	<manu>	That is clear
[2020-06-02T16:29:24.794Z]	<manu>	crystal clear - great.
[2020-06-02T16:29:28.036Z]	<burn>	q-
[2020-06-02T16:29:31.458Z]	<burn>	Yep, clear
[2020-06-02T16:29:32.742Z]	<markus_sabadello>	JoeAndrieu: The question is, who is a "member of the CCG" (as opposed to "member of W3C")
[2020-06-02T16:29:47.096Z]	<heathervescent>	OK, that is clear. Thank you.
[2020-06-02T16:29:52.107Z]	<markus_sabadello>	burn: I think it's clear, based on what Joe just said.
[2020-06-02T16:30:04.720Z]	<ChristopherA>	+q
[2020-06-02T16:30:18.180Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Do we still have a question individuals vs. member companies?
[2020-06-02T16:30:42.566Z]	<markus_sabadello>	burn: manu is right, I have personally witnessed "room packing". There is potentially a risk, but announcement of a date was a good thing, this makes people show up.
[2020-06-02T16:30:43.355Z]	<manu>	+1 to what burn is saying right now.
[2020-06-02T16:31:35.121Z]	<markus_sabadello>	burn: That's when you have to wonder about people and their motivations. As a group we can look at it, and if it looks like crazy overwhelming votes by one company, we can do something about it. Normally, we only have 2-3 per company, and in this case usually they all contribute.
[2020-06-02T16:32:07.515Z]	<markus_sabadello>	ChristopherA: I wanted to be clear that the chairs get a list of all changes as people join and leave. There have only been 5 or 6 changes since May 12th, i.e. a small group of people who are not eligible.
[2020-06-02T16:32:16.964Z]	<markus_sabadello>	ChristopherA: We will send this list to the talliers.
[2020-06-02T16:32:39.454Z]	<markus_sabadello>	ChristopherA: If you are listed as a member you can vote. It's an individual vote, not a corporate vote.
[2020-06-02T16:32:57.414Z]	<markus_sabadello>	ChristopherA: We can change the charter if necessary, but I don't see a need for that right now.
[2020-06-02T16:33:05.242Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Topic: SVIP Interoperability Plug Fest
[2020-06-02T16:33:26.458Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: This was sponsored by DHS, we have Anil_John on this call as well as participating companies
[2020-06-02T16:34:09.563Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: I'm happy for participants to report, then I can add some comments from the government side.
[2020-06-02T16:34:56.962Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: To give background on DHS Silicon Vallery Innovation Program (SVIP), this is a program in the US that creates contracts between companies working on technologies that are helpful to DHS
[2020-06-02T16:35:25.562Z]	<Anil_John>	I also sent a overview deck on SVIP and the work that we have been doing in this space to the CCG list as an FYI
[2020-06-02T16:35:31.237Z]	<Anil_John>	Just sent
[2020-06-02T16:35:31.785Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: This particular set of companies are building and deploying DID and VC technologies, the vast majority are active participants in this CCG.
[2020-06-02T16:35:59.636Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: One of the things the program is trying to do is ensure that there are good open standards in place for the technologies we are creating.
[2020-06-02T16:36:24.863Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: The desire is to prevent vendor lock-in, to demonstrate that there is real interoperability (not just companies pretending it)
[2020-06-02T16:36:33.046Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: This is open to companies outside the U.S.
[2020-06-02T16:36:48.414Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Typically such programs are limited to only E.U, or only U.S., etc.
[2020-06-02T16:37:00.244Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: This is novel since it accepts anyone in the world working on DIDs, VCs.
[2020-06-02T16:37:26.783Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: One thing that we had to do was demonstrate interoperability between the systems we are deploying
[2020-06-02T16:37:51.757Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: There were a number of use cases, such as Permanent Residence Cards, and supply chain use cases around steel and timber imports
[2020-06-02T16:38:08.777Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: These are real use cases, real governments involved, real technologies built out to achieve these use cases
[2020-06-02T16:38:30.760Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: The common underpinning thing was we are all using DIDs, VCs, all conceived by this community group.
[2020-06-02T16:39:11.303Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: At the very end of it, we had to demonstrate interop, we had to show e.g. one company issuing a VC, another company picking it up with their wallet, and presenting the VC to a verifier built by yet another company.
[2020-06-02T16:39:33.034Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: This meant interop between different DID methods, resolvers, CHAPI, encrypted data vaults, etc.
[2020-06-02T16:40:07.024Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: Anyone else from the cohort want to add anything?
[2020-06-02T16:40:11.874Z]	<Orie_>	q+
[2020-06-02T16:40:13.158Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Jun/0011.html
[2020-06-02T16:40:20.577Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	(Anil's email)
[2020-06-02T16:40:39.594Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: I sent an email describing the program
[2020-06-02T16:41:10.320Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: This had interoperability using seven different platforms, using the baseline of the standards that have been incubated and championed
[2020-06-02T16:41:24.534Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: This is not software monoculture, this is real multi-party interop
[2020-06-02T16:41:48.197Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q+
[2020-06-02T16:41:58.974Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: Anybody who makes an argument that this is impossible and we can't do it.. We demonstrated that it's possible. Doesn't mean that there isn't more work that needs to be done.
[2020-06-02T16:42:15.085Z]	<kimhd>	ack Orie_
[2020-06-02T16:42:36.034Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie_: I wanted to say thank you to Anil_John and the other SVIP companies. This work has been really really helpful in demonstrating technical interoperability.
[2020-06-02T16:42:41.135Z]	<manu>	q+ to point out the "things that were difficult that we didn't expect to be difficult"
[2020-06-02T16:42:57.675Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie_: This is not done, the test case repositories will continue to be maintained
[2020-06-02T16:43:20.385Z]	<kimhd>	ack jonathan_holt
[2020-06-02T16:43:21.235Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Orie_: Even if you are not part of the SVIP cohort companies, this is open to all of CCG, and anyone if welcome to contribute
[2020-06-02T16:43:45.216Z]	<markus_sabadello>	jonathan_holt: I'm concerned about a hard constraint on JSON-LD. We have other formats such as CBOR
[2020-06-02T16:44:05.923Z]	<markus_sabadello>	jonathan_holt: Is there are plan for other interopability to expand the proof testing?
[2020-06-02T16:44:20.335Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: From our perspective, our focus continue to be on JSON-LD.
[2020-06-02T16:44:43.059Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: We have companies in this cohort that in addition to supporting JSON-LD, they also support other mechanisms
[2020-06-02T16:45:08.819Z]	<kimhd>	ack manu
[2020-06-02T16:45:12.180Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: They want to support across the broader ecosystem. We require JSON-LD but don't stop others from supporting other technologies
[2020-06-02T16:45:12.354Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-02T16:45:40.774Z]	<Orie_>	jonathan_holt I'm trying to support JWTs... but unfortunately the VC Data Model was overly inspecific regarding their interactions with controllers / DIDs... I think we will see some interoperability tests for them eventually.
[2020-06-02T16:46:05.134Z]	<manu>	markus_sabadello: What we've done in this program isn't limited to the program itself. One of the requirements was that what we did had to be contributed to CCG and opened up to wider discussion.
[2020-06-02T16:46:35.438Z]	<manu>	markus_sabadello: The work will continue there - that's been really valuable, not only was the program for implementing the government use cases, but it's strengthened the community as a whole. That's the most important/interesting part for me.
[2020-06-02T16:46:40.287Z]	<kimhd>	Anil, I'm going to turn over to you at 10 minutes before the hour. That will give you a few minutes to talk plus a few more for Q&A. Sound ok?
[2020-06-02T16:46:47.715Z]	<manu>	q+ to things that were difficult that we didn't expect to be difficult.
[2020-06-02T16:47:09.755Z]	<Orie_>	regarding CBOR and JSON DID Documents... there are currently 0 did documents that are expressed as only JSON or CBOR, AFAIK... so one major reason not to focus on them... is that they are even more experimental than JSON-LD DID Document represenations.
[2020-06-02T16:47:35.643Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: The intent of us being public about this, sharing lessions learned, making test suite public available... We want to feed back into the community what worked and what didn't work, to improve the standardization process.
[2020-06-02T16:47:46.136Z]	<kimhd>	ack manu
[2020-06-02T16:48:05.942Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: I wanted to explain what we thought would be easy but ended up being very challenging.
[2020-06-02T16:48:27.405Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: As Anil_John pointed out, when you have a real use case, and you have to implement the use case AND do interop, you find things you didn't anticipate
[2020-06-02T16:48:56.378Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: E.g. the VC specifications have a test suite, it was implemented, everybody passed. But when we started issuing and consuming VCs, some things didn't line up
[2020-06-02T16:49:19.926Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: In the VC work, we were not working on APIs, so we only started working on that during SVIP.
[2020-06-02T16:49:32.035Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-02T16:49:41.534Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: We thought those APIs would be simple, but they turned out to be very difficult. Systems that need to interop must have such APIs.
[2020-06-02T16:49:55.965Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Orie_ :  The IPID DID method is built on dagCBOR and I am supporting 3 other implementers.
[2020-06-02T16:50:14.895Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: It took us multiple months for the organizations to collaborate on this, we had multiple calls about the design of those APIs.. Even after we locked down the spec, we needed to tweak things in order to get interop working
[2020-06-02T16:50:47.863Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: We (Digital Bazaar) thought this would eat up 10%-15% of our time, but it was more like 40%-50% of our time.
[2020-06-02T16:50:56.367Z]	<Orie_>	jonathan_holt can you link the repos for dagCBOR here?
[2020-06-02T16:51:26.794Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: The good news is that at the end of the day, this helped us hammer through issues.. Because of that, we were ultimately able to demonstrate interop between different companies
[2020-06-02T16:51:56.618Z]	<markus_sabadello>	manu: We were able to push things beyond just the lowest layer (the W3C VC test suite), and have higher-level tests for real interop
[2020-06-02T16:52:25.115Z]	<jonathan_holt>	Orie_ :  https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/js-did-ipid
[2020-06-02T16:52:34.114Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: It would be interesting to understand a bit more the kinds of challenges you ran into, maybe a few examples.. This could inform future standardization efforts
[2020-06-02T16:52:41.143Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: What can we learn from this going forward
[2020-06-02T16:53:04.714Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-06-02T16:53:38.457Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: Just a couple of quick points.. The work is by no means done. We demonstrated a foundation level of interop
[2020-06-02T16:53:58.582Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: Because of Covid19 we were not able to do actual testing, only demos
[2020-06-02T16:54:07.298Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: In the future we expect to increase actual testing
[2020-06-02T16:54:14.934Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: Two areas I am worried about from our organization:
[2020-06-02T16:55:09.956Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: We are the only global authoritative issues of a U.S. Permanent Residence Card. One of the question that had a lot of discussion is, will you accept a DID that is coming to you, or are you expected to issue a DID for the subject?
[2020-06-02T16:55:38.221Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: We are concerned that all DID issuance infrastructure is not the same, wallets are not the same, security characteristics are widely unknown.
[2020-06-02T16:55:55.456Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: We expect to whitelist a set of DIDs and wallets we will accept. The criteria we will use for that is completely undefined.
[2020-06-02T16:56:23.054Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: In the absence of a broader ecosystem, we plan to brute force this. In Phase 3, red teams will investigate the solutions
[2020-06-02T16:56:42.476Z]	<identitywoman>	https://twitter.com/dinodaizovi/status/1267697835480399874 "Tech friends: I think now is a good time to submit PRs to systems you work on that replace terminology like whitelist/blacklist with alternatives like allowlist/denylist. Besides not having any racial overtones, they are clearer to non-native English speakers too."
[2020-06-02T16:56:49.018Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: That brute force mechanism is what I am using in the absence of something more rigorous in the community
[2020-06-02T16:57:04.358Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: The second piece of it is:
[2020-06-02T16:57:52.114Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: We need to pay a whole lot more attention on the user experience of wallets. In my own head, we have the ability to do challenges and prizes. Would this be useful to make the technology available to more people?
[2020-06-02T16:57:56.453Z]	<rgrant>	q+ what is the timeframe for determining identity wallet whitelisting critera, and where will US DHS store the registry of whitelisted wallets?
[2020-06-02T16:58:05.419Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: I'm giving a lot of thought to this to move forward
[2020-06-02T16:58:05.494Z]	<jonathan_holt>	q+
[2020-06-02T16:58:08.947Z]	<kimhd>	ack rgrant
[2020-06-02T16:58:24.938Z]	<identitywoman>	allow listing is a better term :)
[2020-06-02T16:58:31.354Z]	<markus_sabadello>	rgrant: My question is, what is the timeframe for determining whitelisting criteria for wallets, and where will DHS store the whitelist?
[2020-06-02T16:58:38.355Z]	<identitywoman>	lets deprogram problematic language
[2020-06-02T16:58:59.614Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: I don't know the criteria yet. The companies are now moving into Phase 2, and there will be red teams in Phase 3.
[2020-06-02T16:59:35.157Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: We're going to have to develop a set of criteria, then verify it at least for the companies that are under contract with us.
[2020-06-02T16:59:35.287Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-06-02T16:59:43.340Z]	<kimhd>	ack jonathan_holt
[2020-06-02T16:59:44.847Z]	<markus_sabadello>	jonathan_holt: I wrote a post about wallet portability
[2020-06-02T17:00:18.245Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: That blog post is my personal opinion, not the opinion of the government
[2020-06-02T17:00:51.475Z]	<markus_sabadello>	Anil_John: In the interop event, we demonstrated multiple wallet providers being able to interop with multiple issuers and multiple verifiers.
[2020-06-02T17:01:22.947Z]	<markus_sabadello>	kimhd: Thanks for joing
[2020-06-02T17:05:14.784Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: connections?
[2020-06-02T17:14:20.976Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: connections?
[2020-06-02T18:02:59.412Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: connections?
[2020-06-02T18:03:10.098Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: disconnect e3f
