[2023-03-14T19:01:09.265Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:01:09.267Z]	<Eric_S>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:01:17.927Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:01:48.804Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:01:54.178Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:02:06.386Z]	<Eric_S>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:03:05.490Z]	<Patrick_(IDLab)>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:03:23.157Z]	<John_Henderson>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:03:48.566Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-03-14T19:03:48.566Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: vcapi
[2023-03-14T19:04:04.906Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Welcome everyone to the verifiable credentials API call.
[2023-03-14T19:04:05.087Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  this is.
[2023-03-14T19:04:09.911Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is March 14th I day.
[2023-03-14T19:04:17.320Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2023Mar/0071.html
[2023-03-14T19:04:18.593Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Alright gender today is.
[2023-03-14T19:04:26.677Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: On the agenda today Eric noted that there is.
[2023-03-14T19:04:58.072Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: An update on use cases there that we look at all the requests which we're probably going to skip again no progress mainly due to the huge workload on ccwg wanted to get a bit more concrete today about exactly what we're going to put into the concrete sorry exactly what we're going to be putting into.
[2023-03-14T19:04:58.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  the BCA.
[2023-03-14T19:05:31.436Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Exchange what we are going to be staying about the EC API exchange and points in this pack so feels like we've made some good progress over the past two weeks we need to convert that into some kind of text but into the SEC and we're just gonna take some time to put some concrete bullet points down so that we can say it's ready for PR and we intend to we are today.
[2023-03-14T19:05:48.240Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Extensibility rules for youth API and options and then this VC API or endpoints be any other items on the agenda today anything else you want to cover.
[2023-03-14T19:05:56.193Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Sort of related to the exchanger so I've been seeing an email from.
[2023-03-14T19:06:29.226Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Ganesh about the caffeine verifier up the clipped a playground and there's been an interesting exchange I was just reading the exchange I think Audrey steal the replied anyways questioning the exchange represent the exchange and point and or he was claiming that there was no implementation existing about the presentation exchange and trying to understand a little bit what you meant by this was wondering if we could.
[2023-03-14T19:06:29.639Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  talk about it does that make sense.
[2023-03-14T19:06:39.268Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:06:43.651Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Sure yep absolutely so we should talk about that we can we can start the call out with that after the the use cases thing so we'll add that to the agenda please remind me if I forget.
[2023-03-14T19:06:49.556Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Any other updates or changes to the agenda before we go into Community updates.
[2023-03-14T19:06:58.279Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Community Updates
[2023-03-14T19:07:30.095Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right jumping into Community updates there are two here that kind of sort of affect us in this group we see I saw some of you putting your support into the ecdsa crypto sweet things so we are stopping the collection of signatures and support for ecdsa at the end of today it's looking pretty good lots of implementer support and VC.
[2023-03-14T19:07:30.451Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  working group members support.
[2023-03-14T19:07:31.633Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Upcoming call for adoption of ECDSA Cryptosuite in VCWG: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-wg/2023Mar/0027.html
[2023-03-14T19:07:48.054Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:07:55.782Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:07:56.758Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	BBS Cryptosuite: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/ldp-bbs2020/
[2023-03-14T19:08:02.123Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We'ii see member support there so in the chat Channel there's a link to me document where you can put in your sport if you're going to support the ecdsa crypto sweet the other heads up to this group is that BBS which just got a bit of a refresh update this past weekend's kryptos sweets so the BBS script is sweet is there in the chair.
[2023-03-14T19:08:02.406Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  that channel.
[2023-03-14T19:08:30.402Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Going to go up for a vote next Wednesday that's the last week we can get new items in before the feature freeze BBS is on the trying to get BBS on the docket you should see an email go out from Tobias looker asking for support if you have an interest in on linkable digital signatures or selective disclosure this crypto sweet does those things and it is the.
[2023-03-14T19:08:38.916Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That we are expecting to be on the standards track do those things in the VC w g.
[2023-03-14T19:08:44.082Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:08:45.400Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That's it from me any other community updates from anyone else.
[2023-03-14T19:09:17.483Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay if that's it for Community updates we can oh I guess yeah the other thing to mention of course in the community update is that the verifiable credential sorry the chappie playground got an update feature update trying to find the.
[2023-03-14T19:09:29.999Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	CHAPI Ppayground adds Verifier workflows: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2023Mar/0053.html
[2023-03-14T19:09:49.138Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The link here so the check chappie playground I'm going to put the link in here choppy playgrounds adds verifier workflows for the chappie playground added a new feature that we've been working on for months and a half-ish to add verification as a part of what the playground does in the playground of course May will is does make back and calls too.
[2023-03-14T19:09:49.465Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  VC API.
[2023-03-14T19:10:20.676Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Services to do the verification so in the same way that we added a whole bunch of issuers to do issuing and you can switch between issuers to issue with the verifier addition to the chappie playground now you can switch verifiers to verify the verifiable credential in presumably the presentation I guess so there's an announcement that went out about that on the mailing list which has kicked off a discussion thread on PC.
[2023-03-14T19:10:27.434Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay that's it for Community updates any other.
[2023-03-14T19:10:31.400Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Community updates before we move on.
[2023-03-14T19:10:38.296Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: VC API Use Cases
[2023-03-14T19:10:46.070Z]	<Eric_S>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api-use-cases/pull/29
[2023-03-14T19:10:47.647Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay next up is VC API use cases Eric you wanted to give us an update on that.
[2023-03-14T19:11:14.045Z]	<Transcriber>	Eric_S: I just posted a link to a new PR this one is mostly just repo clean up fixing Respec errors adding some new terms like our verifier and issuer services and coordinators to the terms document I see tall Ted has always already taken a look and suggested a few spelling or grammar changes so if anyone else would like to get anything like that in the next.
[2023-03-14T19:11:48.721Z]	<Transcriber>	Eric_S: I think Joe and I will look to push this probably after this call next week in case there's anything to discuss next steps with the use cases is going to be coming out of the review of n points to update the sequence diagrams that are in the use cases document to make use of the endpoints that we actually discussed here and that should give us coverage to see if the use case document is missing any of critical use cases at this point in time.
[2023-03-14T19:11:49.532Z]	<Transcriber>	Eric_S:  so that's kind of the general plan going forward if anyone has any questions feel free to reach out.
[2023-03-14T19:12:16.220Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Excellent thank you for that Eric and as always thank you for the work that you continue to do on that document which is vital for us to get a working group to be able to outline what the use cases are any other questions concerns about the repository cleanup or the use cases in general.
[2023-03-14T19:12:47.228Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right next up is discussion next item is discussion on ccg I guess a ccg this discussion on VC API and point.
[2023-03-14T19:12:47.702Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: CCG Discussion on VC API Implementations
[2023-03-14T19:13:18.624Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Asians there has been a discussion that has been kicked off around who's implementing what in the VC API think basically I think Ganesh did a announcement about the chappie playground or E asked for clarification on what the playground actually implements Ganesh.
[2023-03-14T19:13:18.931Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  she provided some.
[2023-03-14T19:13:52.195Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I think Corey suggested that no one's implemented be Capi exchanges and so she we should strike it from the specification going to ask responded that no in fact they have been multiple implementations of it possibly you know people don't know about it and Ori of course confirmed that the presentations proven point is implemented in the traceability cohort so I think that's kind of where the discussion is right now.
[2023-03-14T19:13:52.640Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  I think in ganesh's response he didn't mention.
[2023-03-14T19:14:23.934Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Any of the implementers in this group except for maybe a mighty DCC he didn't say that anybody else you know was implementing it and if they are we don't I don't know about it the other question of course is like who's intending to implement it or do an implementation of it we also you know I guess didn't see anyone say that they intend to implement it on the mailing list so if you intend to implement it you might want to chime in to that discussion thread.
[2023-03-14T19:14:24.324Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  go ahead.
[2023-03-14T19:14:54.890Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Yes sir just trying to understand so I see here I think John Henderson which I believe was their lat he's there right now he replied with energy web that said they implemented it and because the VC API from what I understand a word exchanges the most important parts is most it's mostly about delivering their credential so if the VC API is so.
[2023-03-14T19:14:55.294Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  defined by The Exchange how come.
[2023-03-14T19:15:01.352Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Obscure the existing implementation about the VC API.
[2023-03-14T19:15:31.916Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Track a couple of reasons one is we haven't had the Cycles to add all this stuff into the specification and document it appropriately I think that's one of the problems the other I think issue is that how do I say this delicately some people don't want the VC API exchanges to exist in their you know their their arguments flying around about how no one's implemented it or anything like that.
[2023-03-14T19:15:32.273Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  when you know the.
[2023-03-14T19:16:05.707Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We'll have you know implemented it so I think there's a bit of fun that's being thrown around right now and in you know we just need implementers that have been implemented this to step forward and say no we've you know implemented this the other point I'll make is that we are incubating a work item we're not standardizing it we're nowhere near candidate recommendations so to like remove features from a specification that were.
[2023-03-14T19:16:06.199Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  actively actively discussing is like entire.
[2023-03-14T19:16:24.638Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Premature right and so there's a again it's just like there's no need to rush through removing things from the specification especially since we're incubating and you know trying to get implementer feedback that's it Dave you're up next.
[2023-03-14T19:16:55.269Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I was going to make two points versus kind of what you just touched on one ear that I feel like there's kind of this rush to treat the incubation work as if it's you know in the standards group and ready to ready to be pushed out into CR for people to implement the whole point here is we're doing incubation where you need to be able to experiment build things up and then arrive at spec text around what people have commonly and.
[2023-03-14T19:16:55.613Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  implemented and there's going to be churn.
[2023-03-14T19:17:28.683Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Because that's how you doing give a shit that's how you run these experiments and get to something that works well for everyone so you get to consensus the other point I was going to make is that there are sort of two different classes of use cases that used to be Capi one of them involves the with this what what I think you are thinking of primarily Patrick which is use cases with users that have digital wallets.
[2023-03-14T19:17:29.180Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  they don't they don't run clients that.
[2023-03-14T19:18:04.348Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Well known and trusted to by the by the issuers and verifiers on various websites that might show up at to these people to use their wallets and collect credentials and then there's these other sets of use cases where there are sort of in closed environments where all of the participants that are moving credentials around everyone is strongly identified and well-known and you decide whether or not to trust people and you sort of use oauth tokens to do all of your access controls and that works really well for all the apis that.
[2023-03-14T19:18:04.893Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  Avicii API defines where you're going are you keeping things with.
[2023-03-14T19:18:30.490Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: For the digital wallet use cases you have issuers and verifiers that are going to use services that are within those trust boundaries but you also have users with digital wallets that are going to be untrusted or Anonymous clients that you need that need to connect to you to exchange information and receive VCS.
[2023-03-14T19:18:37.006Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Thanks Dave Patrick.
[2023-03-14T19:19:06.692Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): That's pretty good I like that distinction so that the Second Use case you mentioned it's interesting would you say that's more driven to like automate software or automate some interaction when you say it's trusted closed system trusted party or these like self autonomous interaction that happens exchange credential verify some information that would be my first question my second question.
[2023-03-14T19:19:07.016Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  kitchen was around if.
[2023-03-14T19:19:38.052Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): This pack is mostly about exchanging credential how like descriptive are we we probably get into that today so I don't want to get too ahead of myself but how descriptive are we going to be between the type of exchanges that are possible like is there going to be a predefined sort of catalog of exchange that exists sort of like like deliver a credential and so on or is it.
[2023-03-14T19:19:38.361Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  it all going to be.
[2023-03-14T19:19:41.962Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ to note "if the spec is mostly about X" statements being ones we want to avoid in incubation.
[2023-03-14T19:19:44.909Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Use Case by use case the implementers Implement their own Exchange.
[2023-03-14T19:20:17.523Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah so to try and respond to that this second use case I talked about is the primary use case I think for the traceability folks there they've got pieces of software that might be autonomous in various ways there have different varying degrees of autonomy that are overseeing or managing or collecting information around like Supply Chain management type software and so the participants in those ecosystems might all be very well known and well trusted.
[2023-03-14T19:20:17.894Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  and you're pushing credentials around between those different.
[2023-03-14T19:20:51.574Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Parties as things are that things move through supply chain so and that's that's where or he's coming from he's you know we sang we didn't use exchanges you know we didn't Implement that that's Basics that we didn't need it for our use case and that can make perfect sense and of course the people that are sitting on the other side of things with primarily addressing the other class of use cases are thinking you know but we definitely use exchanges and you know that's it's a.
[2023-03-14T19:20:52.231Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  real piece of being able to move these credentials across the the.
[2023-03-14T19:21:23.135Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Boundaries that exist these these these these boundaries exist actually in our use cases so getting to your second question you know what are we going to put in the spec for exchanges are we going to put specific flows and things I think this cuts to the challenges that we have in properly designing test Suites so I don't think we want to put any real.
[2023-03-14T19:21:23.501Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  Lee specific flow.
[2023-03-14T19:21:58.441Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Call out and say this is a common flow and this is a common business use case we're going to put that directly into the spec I don't think we want to do that at all but we do want to do is make sure that we Define how the endpoints work in the messages that are going to flow across work and it's vital that we make sure that anyone who's implementing those things can actually hook that up to a real business use case and this is part of the trouble that we had with the original design for the BC API like you know version 0.1 it was.
[2023-03-14T19:21:58.927Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  built around just constructed it was built around enabling people.
[2023-03-14T19:21:59.155Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: In a row.
[2023-03-14T19:22:34.836Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: A sweet we're at the end of passing the interrupt estimate you didn't actually have a library or product that you could hook up to any business use case because all it was was like a translation from an HDPE layer to a function so we didn't it did not really meet it didn't really provide the features that we want to provide it was sort of like a specialized case of like web RPC and that's not a very useful thing and so I think what we're going to want to do for the tests we I think in the test Suite.
[2023-03-14T19:22:35.666Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  case we are going to want to come up with sort of a fake or simulated use case and say.
[2023-03-14T19:23:06.791Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Who wants to test the exchanges API in the interop test Suite needs to create an exchanger that works it can use whatever implementation at once to behind the scenes but it needs to address this sort of fake test Suite use case and then the test Suite can run through that use case using the API endpoints that are in the spec and I think that's I think that's how we can go about addressing this issue that we bumped into before that the sort of the instance and.
[2023-03-14T19:23:07.184Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  ation stuff that we've.
[2023-03-14T19:23:29.699Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: In issues that but we haven't gotten into the spec text the stuff that really makes this stuff possible to address real business use cases we need to get that into the spec and this also makes it possible to test this stuff so that when people build implementation to the test suite at the end of it they actually have something that they can turn into a library or product.
[2023-03-14T19:23:31.194Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-03-14T19:23:32.882Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2023-03-14T19:24:00.346Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Dave thanks Dave I put myself on the Q so Patrick I think you said something to the effect of you know the spec is mostly about sex like exchanges in I think we need to be careful with that kind of language you know we're incubating and it you know the spec is as much about you know issuer services and verifier Services as is it as is it about doing exchanges.
[2023-03-14T19:24:00.633Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  is right in so I don't know if there is.
[2023-03-14T19:24:34.678Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Buddy in the spec right now understanding that you know we can't just you know do a grab bag of apis in call that you know a standard we have to make sure that there's like a cohesive narrative to through all this stuff but just to point out that you know I don't I would personally I would not say that the spec is mostly about the exchanges today I think that's one thing that the spec has in there the other things that has in there or like the issuer.
[2023-03-14T19:24:35.214Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  US in the verifier service which are you know.
[2023-03-14T19:24:41.130Z]	<John_Henderson>	+1
[2023-03-14T19:24:43.262Z]	<Dave_Longley>	+1 the spec isn't "mostly about the exchanges" (but from one class of use cases, I can see how people might think that)
[2023-03-14T19:24:43.855Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Lee you know important things on in their own right that's it go ahead Patrick.
[2023-03-14T19:25:11.864Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah thanks for that clarification I'll make sure to pay attention to the to that because I was really under the impression that the VC API was mostly meant to be a communication mechanism you know like between to your coordinators or to implementation but I'll try to not limit it to that my second part is very interesting what you said there especially around this week because that was.
[2023-03-14T19:25:12.276Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  was exactly where.
[2023-03-14T19:25:13.892Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q+ VC API is a set of APIs that are helpful when you're doing VC lifecycle management.
[2023-03-14T19:25:35.154Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Dislike how can you have a test Suite against something that's not defined you know like that's to have a test which you need to have some Define scenario to test and I think that this idea of like having like simulated test case or scenario or situation I think that that's very good and that the second part you said about.
[2023-03-14T19:26:09.068Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Watching this sort of enter up ability test with but not being able to match each other it's very interesting because just quick parallel so we talked with organization within the the Ares ecosystem and they have the Aries agent test harness which is to meant meant to test Frameworks or libraries so for example one of the library's the afj the Ares JavaScript library the Ares framework JavaScript and one thing that.
[2023-03-14T19:26:09.581Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  happened talking to some of the implementers is that the boat.
[2023-03-14T19:26:09.794Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Who is this.
[2023-03-14T19:26:42.225Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): If G sweet and they know when you have to afj libraries they can talk to each other however when they tried to integrate their platform with their other companies platform they had issues even though they're both use a library that is sort of interpretable and it's matching when it comes to actually testing an actual business implementation that's where they found that there was some higher-level difficulties and I feel that's very.
[2023-03-14T19:26:42.619Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  close to what you were just describing so I find that.
[2023-03-14T19:26:48.236Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack manu
[2023-03-14T19:27:17.344Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah plus 12 that I put myself on the Queue it's so you know and I know just previously I said we shouldn't try and say that the VC API is about X but I'm going to I'm going to try and do that right now just as a as a general thing so you know my understanding of the VC API now which could change you know as we add other things to it or move things from it is it.
[2023-03-14T19:27:17.739Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  is a set of apis that help you do lifecycle.
[2023-03-14T19:27:51.446Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Verifiable credential so Cradle to grave you know with the verifiable credential lets you create them you know sign them send them out to a holder holder manages them using the API can send them to a verifier verifying verifies them issuer can then do things like revocation you know in fetching of the status list from the verifier like it does it has endpoints that describe how you drive all of these kind of.
[2023-03-14T19:27:51.963Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  of behaviors and the ecosystem you.
[2023-03-14T19:28:25.293Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Points that we defined in the spec so you know I think in and again I think that's kind of a bit of a hand wavy way to do it we should also remember that like in the beginning we had separate apis purely for the issuer service purely for the verifier service purely for you know the the presentation stuff in the set of people that were involved at that time said that they really hated that and they wanted everything together in one spec and it was much better.
[2023-03-14T19:28:25.923Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  in one Speck in so that's why we have them all in one spec.
[2023-03-14T19:28:57.094Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And that doesn't mean that we can't split them out again you know in the future but again I think we're exploring the design space right now in a in a pretty in-depth way like these are not paper prototypes we have people implementing this stuff and deploying them into pilots and production systems so but at the same time I think we're trying to be very careful about not rushing this I know that there are other initiatives.
[2023-03-14T19:28:57.404Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  initiatives that are.
[2023-03-14T19:29:28.215Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Trying to rush apis through so that they can claim that there's you know a standard API for doing verifiable credential you know stuff but I'm not sensing the same amount of urgency you know from this group or the people that you know are working on it at least at this point in time so all that to say we should keep an open mind about what is and isn't in the VC API because we might you know I think we're trying to make this driven by market need right it's we're going to Define.
[2023-03-14T19:29:28.631Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  fine apis that are.
[2023-03-14T19:29:36.622Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Two people in the ecosystem to help them as Dave said achieve real world use cases.
[2023-03-14T19:29:53.801Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Said anything else on this item about the discussion around like what we see API you know whether or not we need to remove things from the spec or you know handle it in any different way any other thoughts.
[2023-03-14T19:30:11.681Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Concrete points about VC API Exchange
[2023-03-14T19:30:18.234Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/338
[2023-03-14T19:30:25.591Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay if not so we're going to get into concrete points about VC API exchange specifically I added this issue here 338 let me go ahead and share my screen.
[2023-03-14T19:30:57.134Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: In the Hope here is that we spend 15 minutes on this and then move on not spend the entire call discussing this but that may very well happen so a bunch of good things were said last week about what exchanges are in aren't in it felt like we had as a group in aha moment in luckily the transcription caught a good chunk of that I don't know if this is this is still not published have to go see why but.
[2023-03-14T19:30:57.481Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  that was captured.
[2023-03-14T19:31:19.012Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Some of the statements that I captured you know are here and they're really towards the end of the call where Dave and Joe were going back and forth about what exchanges are and are not and what the what they're supposed to do so just to summarize to jog everyone's memory.
[2023-03-14T19:31:50.880Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Dave said something along the lines of well you know exchanges are these kind of pre-built kind of back-and-forth that uses a protocol that's defined you know in the specification like you can construct them in a way where it's you know their messages passed back and forth and you know how to speak at least that protocol to exchange information.
[2023-03-14T19:32:23.019Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Think you characterized it as you know these are kind of extension points for complex flows where you can hit an interface and you get something back that as Dave was saying helps you then go back and forth between a client and a server in you know in the hopes that at the end you get back you know some of the information that you wanted as a client.
[2023-03-14T19:32:23.470Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  as a verifiable credential or verify.
[2023-03-14T19:32:50.959Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so what what do what what bullet points do people feel are important to place into the specification like what points based on the conversations we've been having what points do we absolutely want to make.
[2023-03-14T19:32:51.192Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  in the.
[2023-03-14T19:32:56.578Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Dave.
[2023-03-14T19:33:24.526Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So this is this applies to both exchanges and other things in the spec I think something that we definitely want to get into the spec that's we've got issues around but no PR text yet has to do with having these these instances of things that are configured that so in the case of exchange is it would be these exchangers so people would set up these configurations.
[2023-03-14T19:33:55.728Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: That you would create an a configuration for an exchanger you would create you would create an exchanger you would configure it and that it's sitting there ready to be used to create new exchanges whenever people show up at for example an issue or coordinator website and so we need to get the at least that concept into this back and then we can provide an optional set of apis if we want to around how to create those but the expectation is that people are going to implement.
[2023-03-14T19:34:08.400Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Hind those things and how you configure them in ways that we could be different and I don't think we need to try and get in Iran up on that because it's going to be too hard to do.
[2023-03-14T19:34:31.020Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: It's too open-ended but what is not open-ended is once you have these things configured you should be able to make a call to create an exchange and when you that should result in a URL that you can hand to a client often an untrusted or Anonymous client.
[2023-03-14T19:34:31.331Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  and then.
[2023-03-14T19:34:47.468Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: That client knows how to hit that endpoint and speak the VC API exchangers protocol and it may optionally be able to speak other protocols because this is an extension point.
[2023-03-14T19:35:02.646Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:35:05.931Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: That latter part is what we need to clean up and make very clear in the spec and we need to make clear that there's this concept of exchangers that sit behind it which is where all of the configuration and other kinds of business magic happens.
[2023-03-14T19:35:11.637Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Implement differently but no matter how they implement it.
[2023-03-14T19:35:25.910Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Come out within it whenever they have a user that they want to do an exchange rates are going to be able to produce an exchange URL and hand that to them and their client is going to speak at least that one exchange API protocol.
[2023-03-14T19:35:55.201Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Let me make sure I'm trying to kind of get all of that in an exchanger and point the client either speaks the VC exchange API protocol or alternatively a different.
[2023-03-14T19:36:02.732Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Protocol all right Patrick go ahead.
[2023-03-14T19:36:32.481Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): When you talk about the exchange URL so you generates you an exchange URL with some kind of payload that has information that the clients going to need to continue the interaction is this URL just an HTTP URL like a web URL or does exchange have their own sort of URL prefix because I've seen like did come they have like the did come prefix same for you.
[2023-03-14T19:36:32.735Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  open I know IDC opiez.
[2023-03-14T19:36:39.468Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): ID is there this concept of a like be Capi exchange prefix.
[2023-03-14T19:37:08.281Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yes so what we have at least partially in the spec today and I think we should continue on with this and clean it up a little bit is the exchange URL is an HTTP URL and if you post an empty body to that URL you should always be able to get back either a verifiable presentation request or a verifiable presentation if you get back the verifiable presentation request it may optionally have an Interactive.
[2023-03-14T19:37:08.644Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  field which is.
[2023-03-14T19:37:13.365Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Shin points go for speaking other protocols.
[2023-03-14T19:37:47.019Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: And so whenever you hit this exchange URL you're going to get one of those two things you get the BP that means you're receiving credentials and your exchange is done we get a BP are it means you need to provide more information in your next post to that exchange URL to continue the exchange and these are the things that we want to get interop around and this also clearly defines where there's where the extension points go in that interact field of a PPR and.
[2023-03-14T19:37:47.482Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  to give an example of what goes in that interact field.
[2023-03-14T19:38:08.942Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Fi and oid for VC service endpoint URL which would that's where you might have a special URL scheme like open ID initiate issuance or you could specify a did calm service endpoint URL where you may or may not have some did calm URL scheme.
[2023-03-14T19:38:10.909Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-03-14T19:38:12.883Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Patrick.
[2023-03-14T19:38:44.083Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): It's very interesting as so that's very similar when you say you post an empty body that's very similar are you initiate the like a did come invitation you know you get you posed this and then you get this sort of invitation that other you transform into your you are URL the only difference is here like when I when I would do that with like in the Ares framework is the administrator of the issuing surface that would make that post request and then they need to provide that URL in one way or another to.
[2023-03-14T19:38:44.640Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  whoever wants to interact with them in this scenario it seems to be.
[2023-03-14T19:38:57.294Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Whoever's requesting that's going to make the first call to get this or is this with this depend on implementation by implementation.
[2023-03-14T19:39:26.062Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah so the way that I think this is the way that I think it's in the spec today and the way we wanted to continue to be again with more clarification is when you create the exchange your you you you get a URL to that exchange and been potentially you already know or receive the VP are associated with that exchange and I should clarify who you is.
[2023-03-14T19:39:26.395Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  an issuer.
[2023-03-14T19:39:57.011Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: As an example creates an exchange they're hating and exchanger endpoint they're giving the exchanger some payload that might include like template variables or something this is this is going to be specific to the implementer they're giving the exchanger some information that it needs to generate an exchange instance and when it creates that Exchange in since it's going to have a URL associated with it that the issuer coordinator is going to pass off the issue.
[2023-03-14T19:39:57.359Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  all right.
[2023-03-14T19:40:02.778Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I'm getting lost Longley I'm not tracking what you're saying so slow down a bit and back up please.
[2023-03-14T19:40:12.743Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So I'm going to read what you wrote here when an issuer creates an exchange yeah they give the exchanger some information that might be specific to their implementation.
[2023-03-14T19:40:16.094Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Don't want to tell anybody how to implement.
[2023-03-14T19:40:31.191Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: The features behind their exchange system but what they get back is an exchange URL that they are going to give to a client.
[2023-03-14T19:40:57.374Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: In the issuer coordinator gives that URL to a client they might do so by just giving them the URL if the client understands that it's an what it is or for example like how the chappie playground works today they might give them a verifiable presentation request that includes the exchange URL in the interact field.
[2023-03-14T19:41:16.025Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: That when you hand that off to a client and the client receives the exchange URL they can either use they might already have the receiving that whole VPR they might already know how to respond because they have the whole VPR.
[2023-03-14T19:41:19.048Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: They could respond to that.
[2023-03-14T19:41:25.623Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Posting a non empty body with that has an appropriate response.
[2023-03-14T19:41:42.836Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: If for whatever reason they don't have that BPR or they just want to code up their things so that they always hit the endpoint with an empty response the expectation is that they'll get that same VPR again from the from the exchange URL.
[2023-03-14T19:41:54.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: This allows for certain levels of optimization and it might help with wallet selection and some other things to take that approach.
[2023-03-14T19:42:04.034Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: And and now I can't remember if I even answered your question Patrick.
[2023-03-14T19:42:29.229Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah what things just question about understanding what is going on here and yes you did answer so from what I understand the coordinator is going to generate it's the coordinator that's going to make that poster empty post request and then it's going to provide that URL to the clients if I'm correct.
[2023-03-14T19:42:49.349Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah so to clarify the issue or coordinator the empty post request is something that the client will make once they receive the exchange URL the issuer coordinators going to post something to in it to an exchanger endpoint to create the exchange what they post will be implementation-specific.
[2023-03-14T19:43:07.912Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Are on a issuer coordinator website they're interacting with that website in some business specific way and at some point the user says I want an employee in a membership credential.
[2023-03-14T19:43:29.298Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: For that the issuer coordinator says okay I'm going to create a new exchange that will enable you to get that they're going to make some kind of post to the exchanger with whatever data is needed and that might include like a user ID for that user I don't know it's use case specific.
[2023-03-14T19:43:39.137Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: What and when they create that exchange it produces a URL that the issuer coordinator hands to the users client.
[2023-03-14T19:43:53.152Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_Jr_(via_iPhone)>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:44:05.409Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Users client takes that URL and can post an empty post to it to receive a VPR that says for example you need to show me your employee card and if you show me your employee card then you'll get a membership VC to the to the to the company gym making something up on the Fly.
[2023-03-14T19:44:22.383Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): All right and the the capability to do this post to this empty post to that URL is provided by the coordinator website or web portal like they would be like some kind of button that they press and it sends a post request and they receive some information.
[2023-03-14T19:44:27.093Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah okay okay yeah.
[2023-03-14T19:44:29.263Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I know the users client which I expect to be like a digital wallet would be that thing makes the post to that URL.
[2023-03-14T19:44:36.296Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_Jr_(via_iPhone)>	present+
[2023-03-14T19:44:59.661Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Okay that's interesting so it's like one extra step than what I'm describing and and the whole thing about the VP are so there's this thing and did come called the out-of-band communication or connection and this sort of supersedes the older connection protocol and you can with an out-of-band invitation you can attach either credential Law Firm or presentation request which as.
[2023-03-14T19:45:00.099Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  Zoom that's what VPR stands for everything.
[2023-03-14T19:45:09.824Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah that's right and in fact that optional piece is kind of what I was describing probably poorly.
[2023-03-14T19:45:13.101Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): It's like an attachment like an optional attachment.
[2023-03-14T19:45:32.579Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Oh yeah okay.
[2023-03-14T19:45:44.962Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah yeah when the issuer coordinator first hands over that exchange URL they could just give the bear URL or they could put that in the VPR itself when they hand it over and that allows the client to skip the step of doing the empty post because they can just respond to that exchange URL with the response to the BP are if they don't have the VPR or they don't want to cut it up that way because they always just want to ignore that and do the empty post the pointing empty post is when you do that you can always get that VPR again.
[2023-03-14T19:45:45.347Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  when to start the exchange.
[2023-03-14T19:45:45.422Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Okay that's it.
[2023-03-14T19:46:01.235Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Patrick I'm putting myself on the Q2 time boxes and move us on because otherwise we're just going to talk about exchanges until the end of time which is fine but I think we have enough to do a PR at this point I guess is my point go ahead.
[2023-03-14T19:46:30.867Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Just a very last question so in the other Bandits this concept of a multi-use sort of requested meaning is there a concept that you create an exchange exchange that can be used by multiple people and they would automatically like duplicate the action every time and follow-up to that like when the exchange is finished as this exchange terminate or is there some record keep of that exchanges deflected and that will be mine.
[2023-03-14T19:46:57.410Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yes I don't think we I think whatever we put into the spec is going to support both possibilities for how people might implement it they might Implement an exchange that could be used by multiple parties they or they might Implement in exchange that's intended to be used by just one party or they you know they might choose based on whatever the use case is and we're just giving them the tools and The Primitives to be able to.
[2023-03-14T19:46:57.666Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  to accomplish that.
[2023-03-14T19:47:05.472Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): When the exchange is finished what happens with the Creator exchange just disappear or is there.
[2023-03-14T19:47:33.757Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah so if it's a one-off exchange which is a valid use case I think the exchange would disappear it could disappear could expire I know when our implementation we have types of exchanges that have like a time to live and if they expire after some short period of time if you haven't used them and that allows for asynchronous failures you know your client might hit the exchange and you completed it but for whatever reason.
[2023-03-14T19:47:34.094Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  there's a network.
[2023-03-14T19:47:48.997Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Received a response and you can you can do it again instead of just destroying the exchange immediately and so there are use cases where that's important but I think that's up to implementers and we should talk about that in the spec but not mandate anything.
[2023-03-14T19:47:59.820Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right thanks for the Lively discussion thanks for the bullet points will convert this into spec text in time.
[2023-03-14T19:48:30.781Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay let's see I'm going to take the agenda out of order because I think we can maybe close this issue 267 and I think we're going to need a bit more time to discuss the extensibility rules for endpoint options so if there are no objections I'm going to start with a PR issue or endpoints this topic in here.
[2023-03-14T19:48:32.044Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: VC API - Issuer Endpoints - Greenfield Exercise
[2023-03-14T19:48:35.744Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/267
[2023-03-14T19:48:55.320Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	(Jitsi infrastructure weirdness — I get sound effects but no voices on my iphone, running latest jitsi app, for this call. But everything worked as expected for CCG EDU call. Happy to test with whomever appropriate if there's any chance of fixing this.)
[2023-03-14T19:49:00.055Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That one and then that's issue 267 um so this is almost this more than a year old so this is the discussion that kicked off this concept that we would have instances in the API I believe in so.
[2023-03-14T19:49:18.041Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I think Corey started out as a much larger just like let's just imagine we didn't have the VC API what changes would we make and I think Longley you had this like oh go ahead.
[2023-03-14T19:49:50.856Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Sure we actually discussed this before and I think we failed to mark this is ready for PR I think you know I didn't want to cut off the narrative you were putting their but we have a bunch of text in here that needs to make its way into the spec now people implementing this back need to understand that the concept at the very least the concept of instances and configurations for them exist behind the apis they're implementing these are not just hdb to function.
[2023-03-14T19:49:51.593Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  laters you need to have something behind these things that have some kind of state.
[2023-03-14T19:50:22.428Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Some kind of configuration or it you can't or doesn't actually work and this there is text in this issue that can be put directly into the spec and say this is if you want if you want to follow this API this is an optional way to implement those configurations and instances and the other piece we need is to say even if you don't implement this API you need something behind the other apis.
[2023-03-14T19:50:22.842Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  to make.
[2023-03-14T19:50:32.573Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You saying we need to add these apis above that you suggested here.
[2023-03-14T19:51:00.252Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: I recommend that we do that and put them in as optional and say if you don't Implement to these apis you still need some concept of configurations and state behind the other apis that we specify like credentials / issue can't function you don't give it 100% of through the call that you make to that end point there you don't give it enough information to be able to do its job.
[2023-03-14T19:51:00.583Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  job and you.
[2023-03-14T19:51:14.460Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Possibly because you're not going to be passing it a private key you're not going to give it potentially conflicting cryptographic sweets you know it's there it has.
[2023-03-14T19:51:24.874Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: What sounds like you're defining a mandatory API that point you're saying if people don't Implement instances then and I'm hearing you say that it's impossible to.
[2023-03-14T19:51:38.253Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah but they don't have to implement the instance API if they don't want to we should say if you want an instance API here's how you do it you know somebody could make a really simple implementation that just has one instance behind it and they don't need an API for that.
[2023-03-14T19:52:11.285Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Just want to expose credential / issue but it just works in one way that's static that shouldn't be illegal for them to do or you know it should be conformant still conforming to the spec if I do that but these sort of management apis of the configurations and instances that sit behind the functional apis are important and they need to whatever is behind them needs to exist in some way or it's you can't.
[2023-03-14T19:52:11.672Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  and Implement any business use case.
[2023-03-14T19:52:16.142Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so this one then is ready for PR.
[2023-03-14T19:52:22.734Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And I took my Pro Rock off since he's not attending these calls.
[2023-03-14T19:52:48.292Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay alright so we have a ready for PR thing here we're at 52 past the hour what we could do really quickly is introduce the next topic actually you know what we can ask Patrick I think you mentioned you might be able to have a grandma to us.
[2023-03-14T19:53:03.308Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Like next week maybe I don't know if that's still on your on your timeline and John I don't know if you want anytime from us to review any potential presentation for open Wallet Foundation next week.
[2023-03-14T19:53:03.500Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  go ahead.
[2023-03-14T19:53:13.098Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Planning Next Call
[2023-03-14T19:53:36.052Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Yes or I did mention that then yes it's in the plan so just explain quickly so the unencrypted specification they have like weekly meetings alternating between the version 1 and version 2 I won't get into that difference today but maybe when I do my presentation I can and so in two weeks I will be presenting my work to the a non-credit group I would prefer to presented their first just too.
[2023-03-14T19:53:36.409Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab):  you know to make sure it makes sense and all that.
[2023-03-14T19:53:47.959Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): And I will so probably like it in two weeks from now I could have something presentable but I will confirm a next week at the meeting.
[2023-03-14T19:53:52.199Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Great thank you John Europe.
[2023-03-14T19:54:07.175Z]	<Transcriber>	John_Henderson: I am still working on the open world Foundation draft presentation but I'm away next week so hopefully the week after that soon in two weeks time.
[2023-03-14T19:54:10.590Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay alright now that that's helpful thank you both for the updates.
[2023-03-14T19:54:43.603Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay well I think with that we can in the call the call next week we'll start off with issue 335 the VC API extent in point options extensibility rules so basically if you want to add a new option to any one of these calls we're defining how do you do it what are the rules for doing that in a way that doesn't conflict with other people's implementations that's it for the call this week thank you everyone again for a.
[2023-03-14T19:54:44.130Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  a wonderful call have a wonderful rest of the week.
[2023-03-14T19:54:52.550Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We'll chat again during our call next week thanks and bye.

