Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) and Our Robot Overlords and russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-07-11-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-07-11-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-07-11

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jul&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) and Our Robot Overlords and russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io)
Present:
  TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Nis Jespersen 
  , Russell Hofvendahl, Brooke Funtleyder, Yinghui (Vivien) Fan, 
  Orie Steele, Chris Abernethy

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): I can scribe.
russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
<orie> welcome BDO : )
Brooke_Funtleyder: Yes I'm with BDO with the customs and 
  international trade department and so I'm just here to learn and 
  take notes.
russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/568
<orie> merge please :)
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/569
Nis Jespersen :  Interopo PRs first
Orie Steele:  We'd previously agreed to remove structures from 
  error messages, this is that
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/571
<orie> cleanup is good.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/572'
Nis Jespersen :  Objections? Merging 569
Nis Jespersen : +1
Orie Steele:  In interop repo, & vocab, lot of dependencies on vc 
  v1 proofs. To get us to support v2, need to first relax proof 
  specific stuff, then address multiple contexts, challenge, then 
  ready to support v1 v2.
Nis Jespersen :  2 Approvals. Objections to merging?
Orie Steele:  Main pt, mesur done excellent job on conformance 
  side, might see breakage as we trim out v1 specific stuff. Might 
  want to call out, this'll happen as we get support from v2 in.
Nis Jespersen :  Merging 572
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/573
Nis Jespersen :  573, Russell
Russell Hofvendahl:  ...
Orie Steele:  Created vc-format header when vc-api no support for 
  jwt. No way to support two formats that vc defined.
Chris Abernethy:  Just threw in, header expecting vc or vc-jwt
<orie> it should match specific content types
<orie> vc+ld+jwt and vc+ld+json
Chris Abernethy:  Current enum, Orie's addition, vc and vc-jwt. 
  Thought content-type should match an actual content-type we're 
  using to differentiate these.
Orie Steele:  Content-Type currently being passed as request 
  param?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/824
Nis Jespersen :  Moving on. That's it on interop.
Nis Jespersen : +1
Orie Steele:  No concensus, no approvals, not viable path forward 
  we discussed, let's close
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/817
Nis Jespersen :  Next, 817
Orie Steele:  Suggest skipping, ci failing
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/820
Nis Jespersen :  Will revisit
Orie Steele:  External, first-time contributor. Nox (?) team I 
  think.
Orie Steele:  Generic status list 2021?
Orie Steele:  Don't understand mahmoud objection, approving
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/830
Nis Jespersen :  Asking mahmoud for elaboration
<orie> TIL https://schema.org/agent
Yinghui (Vivien) Fan:  A few updates in delivery schedule. Update 
  a few linked data
Orie Steele:  Great changes
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/831
Nis Jespersen :  Merging.
Yinghui (Vivien) Fan:  Delivery ticket, nosMonth rename
Nis Jespersen :  Moved from inlining to referencing organization?
Yinghui (Vivien) Fan:  Don't know why inlining in first place. 
  Fields are same in organization object
Orie Steele:  Left comment. Possible carrier org is more fields 
  than want, rec not using ref as org when can inline smaller set 
  of reqs. Would generally rec inlining smaller requirements. 
  Reduces potential work filling in form
<orie> chances are referring to organization is adding 
  requirements you probably don't want.
Nis Jespersen :  If need all fields in org can do this, but 
  typically more generic, want to pick out use case working on.
Yinghui (Vivien) Fan:  Apply to other common elements?
Orie Steele:  Applies generally, any rdf type that defines other 
  rdf type. Best to say "it's org but only name req'd". When using 
  $ref, only pulling in. Reduces burden for someone issuing cred.
Yinghui (Vivien) Fan:  How make sure terms aligned? Say in 
  inline, field saying name, but in organization rename name to
Orie Steele:  Term defs only appear when convert from json-ld to 
  rdf.
Yinghui (Vivien) Fan:  So you suggest hold on merging this PR?
Orie Steele:  Fine with merging, can come back re-inlin org in 
  smaller PR
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/833
Nis Jespersen :  Merging
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/834
Orie Steele:  Good to have mahmoud, mike, ben for, skip
Nis Jespersen :  834
Orie Steele:  Cousin of other PR I mentioned. Removes proof req 
  everywhere, proof from visualization. Most of what'schanging 834 
  internal tooling no longer necessary.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/835
Nis Jespersen :  Objections to thumbs up to merge out of band?
Orie Steele:  Weird whitespacing, looks nice
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/481
Nis Jespersen :  Merging with 2 approvals
Chris Abernethy: +1
Nis Jespersen : +1
Orie Steele:  PR merged removed verification of tests
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/534
Nis Jespersen :  Closing
Orie Steele:  Pinging him, skip it
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/533'
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/532
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/496
<orie> hmm
Nis Jespersen :  533 Also Mahmoud, adding changes to section 4. 
  Mahmoud already assigned. Moving on
Chris Abernethy:  496, Clarify best practices for retrieval and 
  ownership of data.
Orie Steele:  Mike had massive PR, made him create ticket to 
  resolve
Chris Abernethy:  Pinging Mike
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/497
Nis Jespersen :  497, Same story, didn't know what to do
Orie Steele:  Have added sections to vcab since filed, which 
  addressed this, refer to that and should be able to close
Nis Jespersen :  Safe to close?
Orie Steele:  Think so. can't issue revocable credential if don't 
  have an ID.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/539
Nis Jespersen :  Next, 539, duplicate json keys in request.
Orie Steele:  Great, request for conformance test I think.
Nis Jespersen :  Takers?
Chris Abernethy:  Question on how we might, this means any of 
  items
Orie Steele:  Pick random, like issuer.
Chris Abernethy:  Satisfied with only testing one key?
Orie Steele:  Yes. It's abt parser. If it gets dupe keys should 
  error. Issuer makes sure triggering for most important one
<orie> thank you!!!!!
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/542
Nis Jespersen :  542, From Christina, deployment architecture
Orie Steele:  Seems to want api to not comment on single vs multi 
  tenant. Don't rly agree, since spec defines http api, worth 
  commenting if expects to be accessed by one domain or multiple.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/543
Nis Jespersen :  543, Also Christina
Orie Steele:  Questions about vc-api endpoints.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/544
Nis Jespersen :  Assigning self.
Chris Abernethy:  My understanding
Orie Steele:  Right, that'd apply to cleanup. If determine don't 
  need to document, or doc and say implementers don't need 
  understand.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/546
Nis Jespersen :  Adding self also, same thing
<orie> Thank you!!!
Chris Abernethy:  Pending close, issue where had github pages 
  artifact exceeded size. Cleaned up etc. should be good to go
<orie> our reports are one of our  proudest features : )
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/551
Nis Jespersen :  Objections to closing?
<nis> ^ 100%
Chris Abernethy:  Fallout from changing how we handle scope reqs, 
  microsoft req'd scope names didn't fall within our reqs. Made env 
  var so didn't define scopes for purpose of testing, otherwise 
  don't test scopes anymore
Orie Steele:  Commenting on issue. I rec we remove tests 
  regarding scopes entirely
Chris Abernethy:  Yes, update=delete
Orie Steele:  Concretely there should be no tests on specific 
  scopes
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/550
Nis Jespersen :  Thank you Chris.
Chris Abernethy:  Yes, specifically for tests while prev was doc 
  & spec
Orie Steele:  Close both issues in same PR
Chris Abernethy:  For interop, did it for conformance
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/502
Nis Jespersen :  Assigning Chris
Orie Steele:  We say not allowed to create multiple presentations 
  same ID, says vocab standards piece
Chris Abernethy:  Matches with last two comments
Nis Jespersen :  Chris, can you?
Chris Abernethy:  Sure, may be a bit
Orie Steele:  Let's assign nis. Needs to be handled in a shorter 
  timeframe
Nis Jespersen :  Thanks for joining
