[2023-07-11T17:30:21.555Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-07-11T17:30:21.557Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-07-11T17:30:22.017Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-07-11T17:30:23.510Z]	<Brooke_Funtleyder>	present+
[2023-07-11T17:30:27.620Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-07-11T17:32:10.045Z]	<Brooke_Funtleyder>	present+
[2023-07-11T17:32:48.532Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2023-07-11T17:33:50.568Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-07-11T17:33:50.569Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-07-11T17:34:02.321Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): I can scribe.
[2023-07-11T17:34:06.394Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2023-07-11T17:34:33.862Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-07-11T17:34:33.863Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-07-11T17:34:45.779Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-07-11T17:35:27.134Z]	<Orie>	welcome BDO : )
[2023-07-11T17:35:28.003Z]	<Transcriber>	Brooke_Funtleyder: Yes I'm with BDO with the customs and international trade department and so I'm just here to learn and take notes.
[2023-07-11T17:35:51.152Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2023-07-11T17:35:58.227Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2023-07-11T17:36:08.783Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/568
[2023-07-11T17:36:16.040Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-07-11T17:36:22.124Z]	<Orie>	merge please :)
[2023-07-11T17:36:36.080Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/569
[2023-07-11T17:36:56.010Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: interopo PRs first

Mahmoud, 568. Basic, no introduction, 5 approvals, merging

569, removes requirement of messages to be a specific enum
[2023-07-11T17:37:11.973Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: We'd previously agreed to remove structures from error messages, this is that
[2023-07-11T17:37:25.949Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/571
[2023-07-11T17:37:54.539Z]	<Orie>	cleanup is good.
[2023-07-11T17:38:53.978Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/572'
[2023-07-11T17:38:59.699Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: objections? Merging 569

571, about interop tests, decided to start removing stuff agreed to no longer support. This simplifies, lot of stuff removed.

3 approvals, objections? merging 571

572, Orie?
[2023-07-11T17:40:43.678Z]	<nis>	+1
[2023-07-11T17:40:57.335Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: in interop repo, & vocab, lot of dependencies on vc v1 proofs. To get us to support v2, need to first relax proof specific stuff, then address multiple contexts, challenge, then ready to support v1 v2.

For this & vocab, update & cleaning removal of proof-related details.

Important thing to chat abt, conformance tests especially, Russell may have another PR related to these changes

Tried not to go too deep into conformance tests re: proof. Going to be a lot of work to get conformance tests up to v2.

Going to have to chip away at this.
[2023-07-11T17:41:05.385Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 2 approvals. Objections to merging?
[2023-07-11T17:41:42.396Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: main pt, mesur done excellent job on conformance side, might see breakage as we trim out v1 specific stuff. Might want to call out, this'll happen as we get support from v2 in.
[2023-07-11T17:41:53.920Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: merging 572
[2023-07-11T17:42:05.739Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/573
[2023-07-11T17:42:09.658Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: 573, Russell
[2023-07-11T17:42:37.258Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2023-07-11T17:42:43.949Z]	<nis>	ack orie
[2023-07-11T17:42:46.322Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Russell: ...
[2023-07-11T17:43:36.329Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q+
[2023-07-11T17:43:43.752Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: created vc-format header when vc-api no support for jwt. No way to support two formats that vc defined.

Vc-format shouldn't exist. Accept & content-type are way to handle. Conformance should be updated to use accept and content-type.

Changes requested?
[2023-07-11T17:43:48.938Z]	<nis>	ack chris
[2023-07-11T17:44:14.494Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: just threw in, header expecting vc or vc-jwt
[2023-07-11T17:44:59.148Z]	<Orie>	it should match specific content types
[2023-07-11T17:45:07.058Z]	<Orie>	vc+ld+jwt and vc+ld+json
[2023-07-11T17:45:20.504Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: current enum, Orie's addition, vc and vc-jwt. Thought content-type should match an actual content-type we're using to differentiate these.

Certainly do think we need additional issues I pointed out
[2023-07-11T17:45:38.133Z]	<nis>	q?
[2023-07-11T17:46:47.178Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q+
[2023-07-11T17:46:47.577Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Content-Type currently being passed as request param?

Should be accept. Trying to tell resource server what wants, accept, and then server returns content-type. Will match if server supports that type.
[2023-07-11T17:47:01.913Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q-
[2023-07-11T17:48:29.515Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2023-07-11T17:48:40.264Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/824
[2023-07-11T17:48:56.702Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: moving on. That's it on interop.

Switching over to vocab

824, Orie?
[2023-07-11T17:49:12.757Z]	<nis>	+1
[2023-07-11T17:49:22.044Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: no concensus, no approvals, not viable path forward we discussed, let's close
[2023-07-11T17:49:32.199Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/817
[2023-07-11T17:49:48.098Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: next, 817
[2023-07-11T17:49:55.744Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: suggest skipping, ci failing
[2023-07-11T17:50:08.080Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/820
[2023-07-11T17:50:20.195Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: will revisit

820?
[2023-07-11T17:50:45.359Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: External, first-time contributor. Nox (?) team I think.
[2023-07-11T17:51:12.506Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: generic status list 2021?

They didn't do any commits since that was discussed.
[2023-07-11T17:51:56.350Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: don't understand mahmoud objection, approving
[2023-07-11T17:52:04.543Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/830
[2023-07-11T17:52:09.435Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: asking mahmoud for elaboration

Moving on. Vivien, 830?
[2023-07-11T17:52:27.869Z]	<Orie>	TIL https://schema.org/agent
[2023-07-11T17:52:41.182Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Vivien: a few updates in delivery schedule. Update a few linked data
[2023-07-11T17:52:46.260Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Great changes
[2023-07-11T17:52:59.971Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/831
[2023-07-11T17:53:06.126Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: merging.

next, also vivien, 831
[2023-07-11T17:53:26.441Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Vivien: Delivery ticket, nosMonth rename
[2023-07-11T17:53:40.750Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: Moved from inlining to referencing organization?
[2023-07-11T17:54:08.669Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Vivien: don't know why inlining in first place. Fields are same in organization object
[2023-07-11T17:54:32.034Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2023-07-11T17:54:50.110Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: left comment. Possible carrier org is more fields than want, rec not using ref as org when can inline smaller set of reqs. Would generally rec inlining smaller requirements. Reduces potential work filling in form
[2023-07-11T17:55:56.338Z]	<Orie>	chances are referring to organization is adding requirements you probably don't want.
[2023-07-11T17:56:08.047Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: if need all fields in org can do this, but typically more generic, want to pick out use case working on.

Easier to pick up single yaml file that has everything
[2023-07-11T17:56:15.889Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Vivien: apply to other common elements?
[2023-07-11T17:57:10.427Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Applies generally, any rdf type that defines other rdf type. Best to say "it's org but only name req'd". When using $ref, only pulling in. Reduces burden for someone issuing cred.
[2023-07-11T17:57:35.728Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Vivien: How make sure terms aligned? Say in inline, field saying name, but in organization rename name to
[2023-07-11T17:58:09.971Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: term defs only appear when convert from json-ld to rdf.

Instance of data elem that values that schema, type organization, that's what gives those rdf terms
[2023-07-11T17:58:22.133Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Vivien: So you suggest hold on merging this PR?
[2023-07-11T17:58:43.280Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Fine with merging, can come back re-inlin org in smaller PR
[2023-07-11T17:58:57.252Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/833
[2023-07-11T17:59:07.437Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: merging

833 from ben, add product to intent to import
[2023-07-11T17:59:17.766Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/834
[2023-07-11T17:59:18.575Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: good to have mahmoud, mike, ben for, skip
[2023-07-11T17:59:25.415Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: 834
[2023-07-11T18:00:30.733Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: cousin of other PR I mentioned. Removes proof req everywhere, proof from visualization. Most of what'schanging 834 internal tooling no longer necessary.

Bunch of cleanup before can support v2, this is part of cleanup

Got conflicts, need to address before merge
[2023-07-11T18:00:50.059Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/835
[2023-07-11T18:01:13.223Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: objections to thumbs up to merge out of band?

Commenting that's OK

835 from me, steel tech demo workflow, approvals?
[2023-07-11T18:01:39.505Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: weird whitespacing, looks nice
[2023-07-11T18:03:05.827Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-07-11T18:03:15.520Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/481
[2023-07-11T18:03:54.753Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: merging with 2 approvals

Final, also mine, merging

That's it on PRs, back to interop, issues

One on top Chris, 481, verification results
[2023-07-11T18:04:46.992Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	+1
[2023-07-11T18:04:50.417Z]	<nis>	+1
[2023-07-11T18:04:53.158Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: PR merged removed verification of tests

Only return boolean status regarding verified

Seems like can be closed, IMO
[2023-07-11T18:05:08.588Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/534
[2023-07-11T18:05:22.621Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: closing

Next, mahmoud, terminology
[2023-07-11T18:05:30.574Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: pinging him, skip it
[2023-07-11T18:05:42.374Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/533'
[2023-07-11T18:06:12.920Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/532
[2023-07-11T18:06:32.881Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/496
[2023-07-11T18:06:54.563Z]	<Orie>	hmm
[2023-07-11T18:06:58.876Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 533 also Mahmoud, adding changes to section 4. Mahmoud already assigned. Moving on

532, several more (531 530 528 529), skipping

Next, Chris
[2023-07-11T18:07:22.624Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: 496, clarify best practices for retrieval and ownership of data.
[2023-07-11T18:08:37.345Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Mike had massive PR, made him create ticket to resolve

Says Trace Presentations have creds, defs, instances. Can't assume anything abt persistence. Has aggressive lang that isn't appropriate. Want to clean this up if lang still present in spec.
[2023-07-11T18:08:52.994Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Pinging Mike
[2023-07-11T18:08:58.294Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/497
[2023-07-11T18:09:25.944Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 497, same story, didn't know what to do
[2023-07-11T18:10:25.404Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Have added sections to vcab since filed, which addressed this, refer to that and should be able to close

In trace vocab, in extensions to standard
[2023-07-11T18:10:31.970Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: safe to close?
[2023-07-11T18:10:58.380Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: think so. can't issue revocable credential if don't have an ID.
[2023-07-11T18:11:12.832Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/539
[2023-07-11T18:11:25.272Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: next, 539, duplicate json keys in request.
[2023-07-11T18:12:51.477Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Great, request for conformance test I think.

Ready to PR, update to conformance tests. Clear enough.

Technically JSON allows dupe keys, but processors don't like, we should throw 400 not 500.
[2023-07-11T18:13:04.147Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q+
[2023-07-11T18:13:08.781Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: takers?
[2023-07-11T18:13:10.971Z]	<nis>	ack chris
[2023-07-11T18:13:36.090Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: question on how we might, this means any of items
[2023-07-11T18:13:45.142Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: pick random, like issuer.
[2023-07-11T18:13:55.819Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: satisfied with only testing one key?
[2023-07-11T18:14:27.061Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Yes. It's abt parser. If it gets dupe keys should error. Issuer makes sure triggering for most important one
[2023-07-11T18:14:38.107Z]	<Orie>	thank you!!!!!
[2023-07-11T18:14:38.688Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/542
[2023-07-11T18:14:58.533Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 542, from Christina, deployment architecture
[2023-07-11T18:15:59.995Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Seems to want api to not comment on single vs multi tenant. Don't rly agree, since spec defines http api, worth commenting if expects to be accessed by one domain or multiple.

Let's say "disagree", mark as pending close
[2023-07-11T18:16:10.404Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/543
[2023-07-11T18:16:27.826Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 543, also Christina
[2023-07-11T18:19:18.319Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: questions about vc-api endpoints.

Looking at section now...

4.1.3 doesn't exist anymore. We have those endpts, 6.1.3, broken image

Section 6 needs massive overhaul, at this pt

Comment - we'd talked abt whether worth anything but external. Mike said yeah worth defining http interfaces even if outside of trust domain.

Delete section, add back things important for implementer to understand, for things don't need to understand add back but clearly distinguish them.
[2023-07-11T18:19:31.655Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/544
[2023-07-11T18:20:38.694Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: assigning self.

544, who initiates interaction.

Question,we're approaching everything /available/submissions? Spec only OAuth?
[2023-07-11T18:20:43.777Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: my understanding
[2023-07-11T18:21:36.182Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: right, that'd apply to cleanup. If determine don't need to document, or doc and say implementers don't need understand.

My rec add (?) if don't get to verification that's not a big deal
[2023-07-11T18:21:53.267Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/546
[2023-07-11T18:21:55.222Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: Adding self also, same thing

546, Chris
[2023-07-11T18:22:17.403Z]	<Orie>	Thank you!!!
[2023-07-11T18:22:22.910Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: pending close, issue where had github pages artifact exceeded size. Cleaned up etc. should be good to go
[2023-07-11T18:22:27.225Z]	<Orie>	our reports are one of our  proudest features : )
[2023-07-11T18:22:39.148Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/551
[2023-07-11T18:22:40.833Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: objections to closing?

Closing. Next also Chris
[2023-07-11T18:22:46.435Z]	<nis>	^ 100%
[2023-07-11T18:23:06.094Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2023-07-11T18:23:24.359Z]	<nis>	ack orie
[2023-07-11T18:23:28.587Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: fallout from changing how we handle scope reqs, microsoft req'd scope names didn't fall within our reqs. Made env var so didn't define scopes for purpose of testing, otherwise don't test scopes anymore

This should be assigned to me
[2023-07-11T18:23:49.501Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Commenting on issue. I rec we remove tests regarding scopes entirely
[2023-07-11T18:23:57.639Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Yes, update=delete
[2023-07-11T18:24:24.274Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Concretely there should be no tests on specific scopes
[2023-07-11T18:24:35.310Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/550
[2023-07-11T18:24:41.615Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: Thank you Chris.

550, related?
[2023-07-11T18:24:56.583Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: yes, specifically for tests while prev was doc & spec
[2023-07-11T18:25:46.619Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: close both issues in same PR

Remove all related tests, update all docs, update guidance
[2023-07-11T18:25:57.442Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: For interop, did it for conformance
[2023-07-11T18:26:08.467Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/502
[2023-07-11T18:26:37.474Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: Assigning Chris

502, dupe presentation ID
[2023-07-11T18:27:13.563Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: We say not allowed to create multiple presentations same ID, says vocab standards piece

Interop doc keeps trying to do vocab doc's job, should refer to specific anchor
[2023-07-11T18:27:25.587Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: matches with last two comments
[2023-07-11T18:27:33.372Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: Chris, can you?
[2023-07-11T18:27:40.278Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: sure, may be a bit
[2023-07-11T18:27:58.829Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Let's assign nis. Needs to be handled in a shorter timeframe
[2023-07-11T18:28:27.264Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: thanks for joining
