[2020-02-11T17:03:36.679Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:06:13.195Z]	<joel_>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:06:18.127Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:06:27.512Z]	<Justin>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:07:04.453Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:07:12.949Z]	<Orie>	yes
[2020-02-11T17:07:14.455Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:07:22.827Z]	<ChristopherA>	scribe: orie
[2020-02-11T17:07:32.532Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:08:03.797Z]	<dlongley>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:08:15.220Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:08:19.112Z]	<ken>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:08:24.565Z]	<kimhd_>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:08:39.903Z]	<manu>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:08:41.559Z]	<Identitywoman_>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:08:44.020Z]	<kimhd_>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Feb/0014.html
[2020-02-11T17:09:23.954Z]	<sumita>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:09:30.608Z]	<Orie>	Agenda: discuss results of F2F...
[2020-02-11T17:09:32.608Z]	<Rohan_Pinto>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:10:11.164Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-02-11T17:10:20.960Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: IP Notes, calls are open. all substantive contributions to work items must come from members who sign the IPR agreement.
[2020-02-11T17:11:03.279Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: Minutes are taken from IRC, and audio recording is available. we use IRC to take the queue
[2020-02-11T17:11:33.884Z]	<burn>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:11:40.389Z]	<Orie>	... type "q+ to discuss the concept of Pure JSON" to que with a topic reminder
[2020-02-11T17:12:11.029Z]	<Orie>	... off topic IRC messages are subject to deletion.
[2020-02-11T17:12:14.316Z]	<kimhd_>	Scribe: Orie
[2020-02-11T17:12:18.595Z]	<ChristopherA>	 https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-02-11T17:12:19.226Z]	<Justin>	q
[2020-02-11T17:12:30.150Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Announcements and Reminders
[2020-02-11T17:13:23.325Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: see announcements, for upcoming events... IIW is right around the corner!
[2020-02-11T17:14:15.087Z]	<kimhd_>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-ed
[2020-02-11T17:14:18.539Z]	<Orie>	kimhd_: Verifiable Credentials for Education Task Force is focusing on implementations with DIDs and VCs for education use cases... meetings are in IRC.
[2020-02-11T17:14:35.241Z]	<Orie>	... 2 meetings so far, join us.
[2020-02-11T17:14:58.314Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: Ongoing task force for DID Resolution...
[2020-02-11T17:15:19.448Z]	<kimhd_>	voip: noise?
[2020-02-11T17:15:27.187Z]	<Orie>	... see announcements for meeting times for DID Resolution group.
[2020-02-11T17:15:44.134Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next
[2020-02-11T17:15:48.039Z]	<Orie>	Agenda: Github Issues
[2020-02-11T17:15:55.785Z]	<manu>	voip: noise?
[2020-02-11T17:16:07.656Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Progress on Action Items
[2020-02-11T17:16:10.847Z]	<manu>	voip: mute 5a6
[2020-02-11T17:16:15.655Z]	<Orie>	Please mute yourself if you are not talking.
[2020-02-11T17:16:16.346Z]	<manu>	voip: unmute 5a6
[2020-02-11T17:16:17.129Z]	<kimhd_>	oops
[2020-02-11T17:16:26.740Z]	<manu>	voip: 5a6 is ChristpherA
[2020-02-11T17:16:44.926Z]	<Orie>	... updating the CCG process, taking old charter and process, and meeting to approve
[2020-02-11T17:17:00.343Z]	<Orie>	... <inaudible>
[2020-02-11T17:17:02.737Z]	<manu>	voip: mute 5b3
[2020-02-11T17:17:20.368Z]	<Orie>	... if you are interested in helping with the charter talk to joe or chris
[2020-02-11T17:17:31.253Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-02-11T17:17:40.858Z]	<Orie>	I can answer
[2020-02-11T17:17:50.477Z]	<manu>	q+ orie
[2020-02-11T17:17:51.869Z]	<manu>	q- manu
[2020-02-11T17:18:09.118Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:18:13.934Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack Orie
[2020-02-11T17:18:27.698Z]	<manu>	orie: The main reason this hasn't gone anywhere is the DID WG and trying to understand where that ball is going to land and do something that would influence that.
[2020-02-11T17:18:51.636Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack orie
[2020-02-11T17:19:10.209Z]	<manu>	orie: At this point, we have gathered a lot of documentation wrt. how to contribute to JSON-LD Context info. We just need to add to READMEs to code sources / best practice guidelines. I'm in favor of continuing not to do that until we have a DID Registry flushed out.
[2020-02-11T17:19:16.223Z]	<manu>	orie: We're blocked by DID Core at present.
[2020-02-11T17:19:17.033Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-02-11T17:19:25.494Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/88
[2020-02-11T17:19:26.114Z]	<manu>	ChristopherA: Please update the issue.
[2020-02-11T17:19:30.058Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack manu
[2020-02-11T17:19:35.153Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: ... <inaudible>
[2020-02-11T17:19:42.959Z]	<kimhd_>	q+ to talk about scribe tool updates
[2020-02-11T17:20:02.643Z]	<dlongley>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:20:03.647Z]	<Orie>	... continuing through issues...
[2020-02-11T17:20:11.244Z]	<kimhd_>	q-
[2020-02-11T17:20:14.194Z]	<manu>	q+ to provide an update on this.
[2020-02-11T17:20:15.716Z]	<Orie>	... need to host schema for JSON-LD Signatures
[2020-02-11T17:20:34.055Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:20:36.473Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+ to ask kimhd about scribe tools next step
[2020-02-11T17:20:37.558Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack manu
[2020-02-11T17:20:48.187Z]	<Orie>	manu: progress due to orie ... we are waiting on the did core registry update.
[2020-02-11T17:21:08.314Z]	<Orie>	... there is a JSON-LD context at DIF with Security defintions... we are trying to move it to did core.
[2020-02-11T17:21:46.458Z]	<manu>	q+ to respond to not put it in DID WG.
[2020-02-11T17:21:47.848Z]	<Orie>	... all kinds of issues to cover in the did wg... if they won't take it there, we will have to find a better home.
[2020-02-11T17:22:10.693Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: can we seperate JSON-LD Signatures from DID Core?
[2020-02-11T17:22:32.943Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack manu
[2020-02-11T17:23:05.435Z]	<Orie>	manu: not intractable... lots of stuff happening around interop at DIF / DHS SVIP / W3C while the did wg is also trying to figure things out.
[2020-02-11T17:23:57.849Z]	<Orie>	... we do want a separate place for JSON-LD signatures... it exists in the W3C VC Data Model, it will exists likely in the W3C DIC Core Context....
[2020-02-11T17:24:30.869Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	+1 to dedicated call
[2020-02-11T17:24:34.403Z]	<Orie>	... need to have a discussion around the appropriate layer... we probably need a separate call to come up with a game plan.
[2020-02-11T17:24:59.194Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: add to issue #97, ... add stuff to discuss
[2020-02-11T17:25:13.008Z]	<Orie>	manu: lets have a dedicated call.
[2020-02-11T17:25:44.086Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/103
[2020-02-11T17:25:46.908Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: scribe tool issues ....#103
[2020-02-11T17:25:52.328Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:26:04.216Z]	<manu>	voip: unmute 5b3
[2020-02-11T17:26:09.835Z]	<Orie>	kimhd_: hello...
[2020-02-11T17:26:21.103Z]	<Orie>	...happy to announce progress
[2020-02-11T17:26:35.215Z]	<kimhd_>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/meetings/blob/gh-pages/README.md
[2020-02-11T17:26:37.144Z]	<Orie>	... previous tedious scripts are now github actions (woot!)
[2020-02-11T17:26:50.902Z]	<manu>	yaaay to kimhd! for working on this!
[2020-02-11T17:27:03.005Z]	<Orie>	... after the meeting, chairs run a command, automation achievment unlocked!
[2020-02-11T17:27:22.699Z]	<Orie>	... no setup on machine required
[2020-02-11T17:27:42.164Z]	<Orie>	... github actions does all the text... audio is not automated yet.
[2020-02-11T17:28:08.062Z]	<Orie>	... requires compression, chopping... some solution must exist.
[2020-02-11T17:28:20.306Z]	<kimhd_>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/meetings/runs/424052461?check_suite_focus=true
[2020-02-11T17:28:20.673Z]	<Orie>	... please help with audio
[2020-02-11T17:28:43.454Z]	<Orie>	... See example github actions, much easier to debug...
[2020-02-11T17:29:07.316Z]	<Orie>	... easier to contribute, more sustainable...
[2020-02-11T17:29:30.124Z]	<manu>	q+ to thank Kim for working on all of this stuff... democratizing minute generation.
[2020-02-11T17:29:31.196Z]	<Orie>	... the task force has been using it, and there is some distinguishment for it
[2020-02-11T17:29:47.273Z]	<Orie>	... if you are running a task force, ask kim for an api token
[2020-02-11T17:30:22.593Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: we archive all meeting notes, and this work supports transparency.
[2020-02-11T17:30:29.894Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-02-11T17:30:36.394Z]	<Orie>	joe: kim you are a rockstar!
[2020-02-11T17:30:45.321Z]	<Orie>	... thanks for this work.
[2020-02-11T17:30:51.734Z]	<Orie>	... whats the best next step
[2020-02-11T17:31:17.203Z]	<Orie>	kimhd_: next time we meet as chairs, how shall we work this into the chair process... zapier / curl ?
[2020-02-11T17:31:25.937Z]	<Orie>	... who gets notified to cleanup the minutes?
[2020-02-11T17:31:33.276Z]	<Orie>	... we need to set conventions
[2020-02-11T17:31:44.513Z]	<Orie>	... bring follow up to the next call.
[2020-02-11T17:31:45.937Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack manuy
[2020-02-11T17:31:48.306Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack manu
[2020-02-11T17:31:57.294Z]	<Orie>	manu: underscore "kim is a rockstart!"
[2020-02-11T17:32:20.594Z]	<Orie>	... huge scalability problem for the group, resolved.
[2020-02-11T17:32:26.765Z]	<Orie>	... thanks a ton!
[2020-02-11T17:32:35.019Z]	<burn>	s/rockstart/rockstar/
[2020-02-11T17:32:38.242Z]	<Orie>	... democratizing minutes and calls
[2020-02-11T17:32:44.533Z]	<burn>	+1 Kim
[2020-02-11T17:32:44.928Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack
[2020-02-11T17:32:57.606Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: introductions and reintroductions?
[2020-02-11T17:33:03.764Z]	<Orie>	Agenda: introduce yourself
[2020-02-11T17:33:08.417Z]	<kimhd_>	Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2020-02-11T17:33:35.534Z]	<kimhd_>	neither
[2020-02-11T17:33:46.756Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: ... chris ?
[2020-02-11T17:34:10.759Z]	<Orie>	chriswin_: Chris with learning machine, recently aquired by hyland software.
[2020-02-11T17:34:30.236Z]	<Orie>	... working on product for VC and DIDs...
[2020-02-11T17:34:33.313Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:34:34.359Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-02-11T17:34:39.541Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack manu
[2020-02-11T17:35:08.149Z]	<Orie>	manu: awesome news! about aquisition... great single for the group as a whole.
[2020-02-11T17:35:17.867Z]	<kimhd_>	+1
[2020-02-11T17:35:21.194Z]	<ChristopherA>	+1
[2020-02-11T17:35:28.728Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	+1
[2020-02-11T17:35:29.817Z]	<Orie>	... lets celebrate! recognize that its a great signal.
[2020-02-11T17:35:31.481Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2020-02-11T17:36:04.054Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: Learning machine has been part of the community from the begining
[2020-02-11T17:36:14.020Z]	<burn>	q+
[2020-02-11T17:36:20.961Z]	<Orie>	Topic: DID F2F discussion
[2020-02-11T17:36:26.358Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://medium.com/spherity/worldwide-web-consortiums-w3c-did-working-group-meeting-bf6c8cef1751
[2020-02-11T17:36:35.041Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: see overview from Juan ^
[2020-02-11T17:36:43.753Z]	<Orie>	... minutes are available to the public.
[2020-02-11T17:36:44.454Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://www.irccloud.com/pastebin/1DaDRyo4/
[2020-02-11T17:36:57.777Z]	<ChristopherA>	 https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020-01-29-did
[2020-02-11T17:36:57.777Z]	<ChristopherA>	      https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020-01-30-did
[2020-02-11T17:36:57.778Z]	<ChristopherA>	      https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/Minutes/2020-01-31-did
[2020-02-11T17:37:03.020Z]	<Orie>	... see the minutes in ^
[2020-02-11T17:37:04.658Z]	<burn>	Everything linked from here: https://www.w3.org/2019/did-wg/Meetings/F2F/2020.01.Amsterdam
[2020-02-11T17:37:11.254Z]	<burn>	slides and minutes both
[2020-02-11T17:37:13.148Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:37:18.640Z]	<Orie>	... anyone want to discuss?
[2020-02-11T17:37:23.424Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack burn
[2020-02-11T17:37:24.328Z]	<caballerojuan>	present+
[2020-02-11T17:37:28.754Z]	<caballerojuan>	oops was in wrong channel (but listening)
[2020-02-11T17:37:44.559Z]	<Orie>	Dan: many of the people on this call probably heard this last time....
[2020-02-11T17:37:52.696Z]	<Orie>	... most of us were on, chairs were not.
[2020-02-11T17:38:00.616Z]	<Orie>	... not planned to redo...
[2020-02-11T17:38:06.776Z]	<caballerojuan>	pssst orie i think his handle is burn!
[2020-02-11T17:38:21.006Z]	<burn>	s/Dan:/burn:/
[2020-02-11T17:38:26.781Z]	<Orie>	burn: specific questions?
[2020-02-11T17:38:40.690Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:38:40.722Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: where are the best places for us to do things?
[2020-02-11T17:39:00.849Z]	<Orie>	burn: always, always, always use github issues....
[2020-02-11T17:39:13.698Z]	<Orie>	... if you care, read the issues and participate there.
[2020-02-11T17:39:31.074Z]	<Orie>	... we should be able to move quickly now that we have made some progress.
[2020-02-11T17:39:37.903Z]	<Orie>	... keep your eyes open.
[2020-02-11T17:40:03.582Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: Also consider the non normative documents, such as rubric and use cases
[2020-02-11T17:40:22.760Z]	<Orie>	burn: all the repos are linked... we welcome contribution on issues.
[2020-02-11T17:40:32.493Z]	<Orie>	... you can propose changes on issues...
[2020-02-11T17:40:49.577Z]	<Orie>	... use cases in particular are a thing we need broad review.
[2020-02-11T17:41:07.043Z]	<Orie>	... the WG has not yet adopted a document...
[2020-02-11T17:41:24.283Z]	<Orie>	... its in progress for getting it into the repo.
[2020-02-11T17:41:29.738Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+
[2020-02-11T17:41:34.669Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rYdWiwawWmLOWtHRvT0GzYcdewW_OS9M2mAkENLFdtY/edit?pli=1#heading=h.kmwybusdx6vb
[2020-02-11T17:41:39.915Z]	<ChristopherA>	https://w3c.github.io/
[2020-02-11T17:41:42.368Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:41:46.054Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-02-11T17:42:12.400Z]	<Orie>	JoeAndrieu: sorry, i was muted...
[2020-02-11T17:42:18.335Z]	<Orie>	... happy to take issues there.
[2020-02-11T17:42:28.008Z]	<Orie>	... see the link to the current google doc.
[2020-02-11T17:42:46.819Z]	<Orie>	... sense of the group is that, its a good starting point.
[2020-02-11T17:43:17.070Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: input requested on use cases... we dived deeper into use case requirements for DIDs...
[2020-02-11T17:43:22.367Z]	<Orie>	... <inaudible>
[2020-02-11T17:43:39.779Z]	<Orie>	... final version of slides...
[2020-02-11T17:43:51.000Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:43:53.688Z]	<Orie>	... request from broader community to cover all use cases.
[2020-02-11T17:44:03.595Z]	<Orie>	:(
[2020-02-11T17:44:34.945Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: I'm back!
[2020-02-11T17:45:06.522Z]	<Orie>	... so, we will work with dan and brent regarding future meetings in the CCG to discuss broader input into usecases and rubric.
[2020-02-11T17:45:23.002Z]	<Orie>	... key point, if you are not a full member of the W3C... we still want your input.
[2020-02-11T17:45:31.095Z]	<Orie>	... other experiences?
[2020-02-11T17:45:31.513Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-02-11T17:45:37.864Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack manu
[2020-02-11T17:45:43.696Z]	<Orie>	manu: once the minutes are published...
[2020-02-11T17:45:51.322Z]	<manu>	Minutes from DID WG call -- https://www.w3.org/2020/02/11-did-minutes.html
[2020-02-11T17:45:52.856Z]	<Orie>	... we just had the did wg call, see the minutes ^
[2020-02-11T17:46:07.024Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	+1 to the 20 min review, especially the grand compromise
[2020-02-11T17:46:14.893Z]	<Orie>	... there was some amount of trepidation around centralization based on what happened...
[2020-02-11T17:46:30.629Z]	<Orie>	... there was a compromise made, to keep people from leaving...
[2020-02-11T17:46:50.761Z]	<Orie>	... the tone is that the did spec is being centralized... some concerns.. around that...
[2020-02-11T17:46:57.940Z]	<Orie>	... read the minutes
[2020-02-11T17:47:30.386Z]	<Orie>	... people in the community want decentralized extensibility, that are also trying to prevent this from becoming a centralized thing.
[2020-02-11T17:47:51.385Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:47:52.273Z]	<Orie>	... there is a danger of centralization
[2020-02-11T17:48:13.534Z]	<Orie>	... we are not near the point of deep worry yet.
[2020-02-11T17:48:25.026Z]	<Orie>	... read Juan's writeup.
[2020-02-11T17:48:27.574Z]	<caballerojuan>	<blushes>
[2020-02-11T17:48:39.799Z]	<ChristopherA>	Juan's blog post: https://medium.com/spherity/worldwide-web-consortiums-w3c-did-working-group-meeting-bf6c8cef1751
[2020-02-11T17:48:41.468Z]	<Orie>	... don't just start cancel culturing the did wg
[2020-02-11T17:48:55.715Z]	<Orie>	... good news, we were able to keep everyone together
[2020-02-11T17:49:23.428Z]	<Orie>	...  feels like things are going the right direction, funding will continue...
[2020-02-11T17:49:36.356Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:49:37.643Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:49:38.264Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+
[2020-02-11T17:49:50.128Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-02-11T17:49:55.025Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: recording of meeting does not exist.
[2020-02-11T17:49:56.123Z]	<Identitywoman_>	q+
[2020-02-11T17:50:18.235Z]	<Orie>	JoeAndrieu: I felt that meeting was a show in the master craft of facilitation and moderation...
[2020-02-11T17:50:26.979Z]	<manu>	+1 to the DID WG Chairs!
[2020-02-11T17:50:36.068Z]	<Orie>	... chairs did a great job of getting the right issues out before having the discussion
[2020-02-11T17:50:49.100Z]	<Orie>	... some folks have not heard the compromise.
[2020-02-11T17:50:50.994Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:50:54.621Z]	<Orie>	... can we get a highlight?
[2020-02-11T17:51:15.217Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack Identitywoman_
[2020-02-11T17:51:23.886Z]	<Orie>	Identitywoman_: I will also share thoughts
[2020-02-11T17:51:28.886Z]	<Orie>	... agree with joe
[2020-02-11T17:51:48.028Z]	<Orie>	... facilitation was good, space was created for perspective
[2020-02-11T17:51:53.259Z]	<Orie>	... take a look at the slides
[2020-02-11T17:52:01.141Z]	<burn>	Thanks Manu.  Very important takeaway, that this was about getting the community together to avoid the dreaded "I don't want to fund this divided industry" risk
[2020-02-11T17:52:13.887Z]	<Orie>	... lets get a highlight
[2020-02-11T17:52:17.514Z]	<kimhd_>	fantastic, thanks!
[2020-02-11T17:52:19.293Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack burn
[2020-02-11T17:52:31.125Z]	<Orie>	burn: brief summary, not all of this is decided...
[2020-02-11T17:52:47.287Z]	<Orie>	... there are a variety of ways for providing extensions to your did document
[2020-02-11T17:52:58.843Z]	<Orie>	... the key is to achieve interop with those extensions...
[2020-02-11T17:53:11.953Z]	<Orie>	... you can extend however you want in JSON / JSON-LD or CBOR...
[2020-02-11T17:53:45.114Z]	<Orie>	... up to you to decide... but there is no gauruntess of lossess interoperability unless you add that extension to a registry.
[2020-02-11T17:54:15.197Z]	<Orie>	... if you add a new JSON prop... and you want your did document to be converted without loss, you will need to add that prop to the registry.
[2020-02-11T17:54:38.405Z]	<Orie>	... the registry will require you to define support for JSON, JSON-LD and CBOR...
[2020-02-11T17:54:57.923Z]	<Orie>	... we will define representations, and a lossless mapping amongst representations.
[2020-02-11T17:55:08.576Z]	<Orie>	... we believe this allows for max extensibility
[2020-02-11T17:55:23.876Z]	<Orie>	... only if you want interop will you be required to update the regisry
[2020-02-11T17:55:36.859Z]	<Orie>	... spec writers are responsible for making the registry.
[2020-02-11T17:55:42.343Z]	<Orie>	... this is a spec time requirement.
[2020-02-11T17:55:42.439Z]	<agropper>	The slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1XI5rrEdBUSYd2tW07GfzOjBkvgKmfeKQyh95Ekl-u8o/edit#slide=id.g76abf93741_68_0
[2020-02-11T17:55:49.815Z]	<Orie>	... thats it
[2020-02-11T17:55:53.179Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:55:55.647Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+
[2020-02-11T17:56:00.014Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-02-11T17:56:04.034Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2020-02-11T17:56:17.676Z]	<Orie>	JoeAndrieu: adding to that...
[2020-02-11T17:56:23.448Z]	<Orie>	... correct me if im wrong
[2020-02-11T17:56:38.328Z]	<Orie>	... do we have an abstract data model and normative representations?
[2020-02-11T17:57:15.960Z]	<Orie>	burn: abstract data model is a general description of what the various properties are that need to be in a did doc
[2020-02-11T17:57:33.495Z]	<kimhd_>	TBH I've always been confused that we don't start with abstract data models
[2020-02-11T17:57:35.167Z]	<Orie>	... intended to be independant of representations...
[2020-02-11T17:57:36.409Z]	<dlongley>	"concepts and ideas" as opposed to "how to write those things down"
[2020-02-11T17:57:48.135Z]	<Orie>	... if there is a desire to create a new representation down the road...
[2020-02-11T17:57:53.849Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:57:59.896Z]	<Orie>	... you will need to map to and from the abstract data model
[2020-02-11T17:58:13.576Z]	<kimhd_>	I figured we had  a distaste for things that make too much sense :)
[2020-02-11T17:58:30.334Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack Orie
[2020-02-11T17:58:32.173Z]	<Orie>	... the registry itself will contain also the extensions to the abstract data model.
[2020-02-11T17:58:34.896Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T17:59:17.424Z]	<manu>	Orie: I've heard this summary a number of times now and I'm excited that we're agreeing to contribute to the DID Core spec. For me, the place that we were before the F2F meeting and the place that we are after the F2F meeting, as a developer I'm having a hard time seeing increased scope/complexity.
[2020-02-11T17:59:23.047Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-02-11T17:59:57.042Z]	<burn>	The registry is not about extensibility per se, it is about interoperability.
[2020-02-11T18:00:02.964Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T18:00:04.177Z]	<manu>	Orie: Now that we've agreed to a registry, and agreed to do work in DID WG on that, the sooner we can get to the point where we can define registry... because it was defined before, and now it's not defined. After the F2F we increased uncertainty, increased scope, increased complexity. We just have more work to do now.
[2020-02-11T18:00:26.460Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-02-11T18:00:31.759Z]	<manu>	Orie: The faster we can get to the point where developers can define these properties in the registry, instead of doing magic handwaving on "lossless conversion"... i'd like to get there as soon as possible.
[2020-02-11T18:00:46.844Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: putting on security architecture hat...
[2020-02-11T18:00:56.282Z]	<Orie>	... how much stuff are we putting into did doc?
[2020-02-11T18:01:09.213Z]	<Orie>	... even putting a public key in a did doc is a risk...
[2020-02-11T18:01:10.583Z]	<manu>	ChristopherA: Putting on security architecture hat, it was brought up at the meeting, but don't think we've dived into the issues on how much stuff we're putting into DID Documents. For exmaple, Bitcoin purists would say even putting public keys into DID DOcuments is a risk, or endpoints to correlate.
[2020-02-11T18:01:33.376Z]	<Orie>	... lots of concerns, and desire to put extra information in
[2020-02-11T18:01:46.099Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T18:01:47.017Z]	<Orie>	... privacy and security issues still need to be discussed.
[2020-02-11T18:01:53.554Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-02-11T18:01:57.953Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack manu
[2020-02-11T18:02:11.666Z]	<Orie>	manu: not trying to be controversial...
[2020-02-11T18:02:31.137Z]	<Orie>	... more work was created, but the compromise was made to keep JSON only folks at the table.
[2020-02-11T18:02:46.814Z]	<Justin>	q+ to comment on keeping people at the table
[2020-02-11T18:02:51.653Z]	<Orie>	... some things a registry does that further strengthen the ecosystem
[2020-02-11T18:03:09.599Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T18:03:12.656Z]	<Orie>	... fundamentally what we had before was never going to work for json only folks...
[2020-02-11T18:03:25.364Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack Justin
[2020-02-11T18:03:26.460Z]	<Orie>	... we can now move forward as a community
[2020-02-11T18:03:39.615Z]	<Orie>	Justin: its not about keeping 1 group at the table...
[2020-02-11T18:04:01.495Z]	<Orie>	... we worked towards a system that works across representations
[2020-02-11T18:04:34.135Z]	<Orie>	... finding a solution that is not what everyone thought of in their native technology space... but something that works for lossless conversion
[2020-02-11T18:04:45.103Z]	<Orie>	... this is an actual compromise
[2020-02-11T18:04:47.734Z]	<ChristopherA>	q?
[2020-02-11T18:04:48.856Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2020-02-11T18:05:11.874Z]	<Orie>	ChristopherA: if you have topics, let the chairs know
[2020-02-11T18:05:18.921Z]	<ChristopherA>	ack Orie
[2020-02-11T18:06:07.520Z]	<manu>	Orie: The thing I've heard a number of times now, and I can sort of see the community perspective, it would be helpful to make it clear the interest that they represent based on structure of DID spec. I think we do a lot of dancing around the names of companies and I find it difficult to understand company positions.
[2020-02-11T18:06:21.249Z]	<caballerojuan>	+1
[2020-02-11T18:06:44.806Z]	<kimhd_>	this is a great suggestion Orie
[2020-02-11T18:06:52.855Z]	<manu>	Orie: At one point do we desire to understand the interest of companies over the interest of individuals. I'd like to understand the interest of companies as that represents a more accurate way of understanding the ecosystem. For example, if you are a company that works in IoT, that may help explain why you want CBOR.
[2020-02-11T18:07:12.254Z]	<kimhd_>	a more data-driven way to inform priorities as well
[2020-02-11T18:07:16.053Z]	<manu>	Orie: I did ask in the DIF slack, which companies would move @contexts - got response from Microsoft and Sovrin saying that they'd strongly consider doing that.
[2020-02-11T18:07:44.276Z]	<manu>	Orie: I'd like to understand which companies would have left if we would have said no and said JSON-LD should be the only thing. In some ways I think it would've been more helpful to see formal objections from companies.
[2020-02-11T18:07:44.648Z]	<ChristopherA>	I also did a more advanced talk on "SSI Bleeding Edges" https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WlDSMRb_X-s that might be of interest to this group.
[2020-02-11T18:07:51.206Z]	<burn>	we are over time
[2020-02-11T18:08:20.224Z]	<manu>	ChristopherA JoeAndrieu kimhd_ ^^^
[2020-02-11T18:08:20.593Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2020-02-11T18:08:20.942Z]	<kimhd_>	I definitely think json-ld only is undesirable for expressing a data model, but I also like getting more data
[2020-02-11T18:08:25.079Z]	<caballerojuan>	+1
[2020-02-11T18:08:28.788Z]	<caballerojuan>	to manu's suggestion :D
[2020-02-11T18:08:32.165Z]	<caballerojuan>	thanks alL!
[2020-02-11T18:08:58.198Z]	<kimhd_>	manu, now?
