Thanks to  for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's CCG Verifiable Credentials for Education Task Force telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-11-02-vc-education 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
CCG Verifiable Credentials for Education Task Force Telecon Minutes for 2020-11-02

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Nov/0000.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions and Reintroductions
  2. PDF Work Items
  3. Modeling VC-EDU
Organizer:
  Kim Hamilton Duffy and Wayne Chang and Heather Vescent
Scribe:
  
Present:
  Kim Hamilton Duffy, Kostas Karasavvas, Scott Malley, Simone 
  Ravaoli, Phil Long, Maarten Boender, Anthony Camilleri, Nate 
  Otto, Phil_Barker, Benjamin Young, Brent Shambaugh, Chris Webber, 
  Dmitri Zagidulin, David Ward, Ganesh Annan, Eugen Rochko, James 
  Chartrand, jceb, Jerry Gordon, Jim Goodell, Jim Kelly, Jonathan 
  Holt, Karen O'Donoghue, Stuart Freeman
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-11-02/audio.ogg

Kim Hamilton Duffy: Okay, so let's get started.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Okay, IP note, anyone can participate in 
  these calls. However, all substantive contributors to any CCD 
  work items must be members of the CC G with full IPR agreement 
  signed
Kim Hamilton Duffy: All of this information is in the the agenda 
  that we sent out. But this is the link to join the CCE group and 
  you may have to ensure you have a w3 Web Account first none of 
  these require payments just
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Setting up the account and then the text of 
  the WCC community contributor license agreement is available at 
  this link.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: These minutes and an audio recording of 
  everything set on this call are archived in our GitHub repository 
  at the following location.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: But yes, but in general you type the letter 
  q+ to q yourself.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Okay. All attendees should type present+ in 
  IRC to get your name on the attendee list and the transcript. So 
  please do that now you can see an example of how I done it. The 
  word presence and will plus no space. If you're not over there, 
  we'll, we'll figure it out.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Okay. And yes, if you're not on IRC simply 
  asked to be put on the queue. Please be brief. So the rest of the 
  queue gets a chance to chime in. You can always keep plus again.

Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions

Kim Hamilton Duffy: As frequently or maybe they've been CC G 
  community members for a while. But maybe you're new to this call. 
  Does anyone want to volunteer to introduce themselves. Otherwise, 
  I'll call on a few people.
Hi this is Martin from Sphereon. We've been active in the the ID 
  verifiable credentials groups, different groups. We are now 
  active also been for a while in educational credentials, with a 
  couple of projects. So we'd like to contribute to discussions and 
  to the standardization.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Great, thank you for joining.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Kostas we have you next
Kostas Karasavvas: Hello everyone, my name is Kostas and I have 
  been working with the University of Virginia to create a platform 
  across digital certificates into blockchain in a blockchain 
  agnostic, but right now it's in bitcoin and we have been in the 
  process of trying to standardize using Cavallo credentials, which 
  is compatible. But there are a couple of issues that we can 
  schedule a little
Kim Hamilton Duffy: And Scott Malley.
Scott Malley: Yeah, I'm also at Sphereon with Maartin, we've been 
  active in other verifiable credential communities and also to 
  some extent with the CC G and but this is our first time joining 
  the educational group. So I'm interested to listen in. And just 
  see what's going on over here.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Anyone else want to introduce themselves.
Simone Ravaoli: This is Simone and I'm calling from Italy. I work 
  for digital, which is a company that has a global footprint in 
  issuing digital credentials in the higher education space.
Simone Ravaoli: And that I've done been advocating for open 
  standards and interoperability for a while. Actually, that's the 
  part that I like best about my job and I specifically would like 
  to see
Simone Ravaoli: And an uptake and adoption of new record 
  standards that have I guess endorsement or consensus between
Simone Ravaoli: You and the US at scale. So that is one thing 
  that I'd like to see that and and would that create a ripple 
  effect globally, but
Simone Ravaoli: I think there are some low hanging fruits there 
  and I'm calling on maybe hinting on the European side and 
  depending on the records in the US that already is something that 
  this group, you know, I hope would take into consideration.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Great. Thank you so much. That's something 
  I'm very excited about to I noticed we have Phil on the on the 
  cube, Phil.
Phil Long: Thank you. kimhd so long. I'm the community cat Herder 
  for the pilot projects for the T three innovation network and 
  advisor to the teal entity issue and like Simone, and I'm very 
  interested in bringing some harmonization to the different 
  issuing methods that are
Phil Long: Becoming quite well established in different parts of 
  the world, but not yet real
Phil Long: What well coordinated or coordinated budget all
Phil Long: And I'm also very interested in a couple of other 
  domains at this area's addressing the have to do with the kinds 
  of goods that people
Phil Long: Issuing credentials for learning education need to be 
  concentrating on and the communication clearly of the value 
  proposition of this to a doctors. Thanks.

Topic: PDF Work Items

Kim Hamilton Duffy: I think I'd like to start with Kostas to 
  present what he had in mind for the for the PDF standardization 
  approach that he was interested in proposing
Kostas Karasavvas: I might give a brief overview, what we have 
  been working on and then go on getting into you know more details 
  for the work I think and how we think about it.
Kostas Karasavvas: As said in the introduction, the project 
  started from academia, but it's actually being extended as for 
  now in other other domains.
Kostas Karasavvas: The idea is that we use the PDF is the medium 
  of exchange. So if you have a diploma. For example, the PDF 
  itself is the diploma, the digital version of the physical copy 
  of the diploma. So you can actually receive it and to give you a 
  view it and do everything, but what
Kostas Karasavvas: You would do anyway. A lot of execution do 
  that.
Kostas Karasavvas: Already. So it's a pretty seamless to start 
  using
Kostas Karasavvas: Our methodology are mechanism, which is to 
  take these PDFs and the anchor them to the blockchain and then 
  get the blockchain proof, something that proves that this was 
  actually should in a specific book someone specific Roxanne and 
  inserting that into the PDF meta data.
Kostas Karasavvas: Within the result being a PDF like
Kostas Karasavvas: Students or our they would get any way but the 
  inside. It now has information that can actually validate the PDF 
  itself. So the digital fingerprint so that you can be assured 
  that it goes and tampered with.
Kostas Karasavvas: And that's it. So a lot of things to discuss 
  around that but that's that's the basic idea a show you a PDF and 
  then you have an anchor or verifiable PDF
Kostas Karasavvas: A everything is open source like the platform 
  to create these is open source in the open source validators that 
  you can host trivially
Kostas Karasavvas: And what we would be interested in is to be as 
  compliant as possible, obviously, to this. And of course, I have 
  been following the very bottom credentials for quite some time, 
  and I was lacking the paper and being very active, but I have 
  even partial designs of how that would be accomplished.
Kostas Karasavvas: And our interesting
Kostas Karasavvas: More specifically, our interest is, as I see 
  it is two separate areas. The first area is
Kostas Karasavvas: There, I think that would be needed some to do 
  some extension just accessibility frame that the VC provides and 
  add some extensions on to how to do the anchoring using our 
  approach our mechanism.
Kostas Karasavvas: And and the second one is how to
Kostas Karasavvas: Standardize how the VCs can then self could be 
  embedded into a PDF and then the result would be that VC 
  universal validate or be able to accept these PDFs and know how 
  to get the specific VC credential and then verify. There's a 
  physical interaction from then on, right. So, usually there's the 
  medium of exchange is a PDF, the container which contains the VC 
  compatible convention.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Great, thank you close us. We have a couple 
  of people on the queue Maarten, you're up first.
Maarten Boender: Okay, yeah, I think it makes perfect sense. 
  There will be a transition period in which people will work both 
  with the PDFs that there are expecting nowadays and getting used 
  to.
Maarten Boender: And going to fool basically data objects with 
  with credentials in there. Those are quite similar to the 
  approach that I should probably know as be taken by open veggies 
  in the past of basically inserting Jason information into a PNG 
  image.
Maarten Boender: And we're up so it makes sense. And we're happy 
  to, to help with that. Just a little bit more background or scary 
  on we come from the field of document processing and we have been 
  working for, I would say 15 years with with PDFs.
Maarten Boender: And not as much of course as as Leonard from 
  from Adobe, but we certainly believe we know a lot of it. And we 
  already are doing things like inserting
Maarten Boender: Certificates and data into PDFs and also 
  registering these on blockchain and things like that. So I think 
  we could work together on that. And that makes sense. So happy to 
  help with that and dive into it in the community.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Thank you. Anthony Europe.
Anthony Camilleri: Um, I just want to say, I understand the, 
  let's say, PDF first approach.
Anthony Camilleri: I just wanted to also make people aware that 
  it's a PDF first approach isn't the only approach. I'm someone
Anthony Camilleri: Let's say personally project signer presents 
  come from the area of start with an XML or JSON and then 
  represent them in different layers and there is a lot of
Anthony Camilleri: Let's say pluses or minuses. They're all for 
  the moment. All I'm saying is I have no problem with both 
  approaches living side by side. But let's say we would have 
  significant pushback. If there was, let's say, a preference for a 
  PDF
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Yeah, Anthony. That totally makes sense. I 
  think I'm in a similar boat where. Okay, so I had a few things I 
  wanted to mention. So first, was
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Talking about this as it compares contrast to 
  say the LCR approach and that, you know, we will have alternative
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Methods of considering what's the envelope. 
  Basically, but I think I'm kind of interested in seeing things 
  play out a little bit to see what which mechanisms we find most 
  useful.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: And at least if we can get alignment, even on 
  the incubation side, then I think that's a great win. So first I 
  wanted to mention
Kim Hamilton Duffy: I am assuming that what you're doing to embed 
  the, the, the, basically the signature, like say, especially if 
  it's a grid of the blockchain is
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Your, your, you must be using JSON LD 
  canonicalization so that's deterministic. Because otherwise, if 
  you modify the PDF after anchoring it to a blockchain or signing 
  it or whatever, then it invalidates the hash. I'm assuming that 
  first of all
Kim Hamilton Duffy: And so I think that the mechanism of like 
  that in the general mechanisms of how you're embedding into PDF
Kim Hamilton Duffy: You know with with that framing that it is an 
  interesting way to pursue what that envelope structure PDF is 
  envelope structure looks like would be interesting. It's a work 
  item I included in the in the chat basically
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Information about how to start work item. So 
  basically, it seems like we're, we would be close to having 
  what's required. So we have this this if you go to that page, we 
  have a template basically that you fill out this information in 
  chat and then now I'll paste in IRC as well. And so essentially 
  what happens is we have a GitHub issue template new work item 
  template and it prompts you to fill out certain information like 
  the abstract your draft or the work item and then the important 
  thing is that we need editors, or basically owners of the work 
  item, and there has to include representation from at least two 
  we say companies, but it seems like we have sufficient support. 
  So basically, you would just fill out this new work item 
  template.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Mention  what you want to do at a high level, 
  and you know you can link to you can also link to a Google Doc or 
  markdown page or something, describing your approach if you have 
  it. And then what happens is the chairs will discuss, see if 
  there's any substantive objections in the community and then 
  we'll create a work item and then you can discuss the work item 
  in the CCG including these meetings, specifically
Kim Hamilton Duffy: The last thing I wanted to mention was the 
  LER approach, which is, to Anthony's point the LER approach kind 
  of inverts that so it's using the basically a JSON structure as 
  the envelope and then embeds a PDF in there so
Kim Hamilton Duffy: I do think for a while. We're going to see a 
  variety of different approaches and while it might drive us a 
  little crazy. In the meantime, trying to keep track of all of 
  them.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: It will be interesting to find out which ones 
  we find most usable in the end.  I think I see Anthony you added 
  an additional agenda item. Did you, I think we still have
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Let me, let me see. Does anyone else have 
  anything they want to add on the PDF discussion or is everything 
  else new topics.
Phil Long: Kimhd, this is Phil. I just want to put it in chat. 
  But I put a link to the wrapper wallet spec paper that Jim 
  Goodell and and Jim Kelly and others contributed to that 
  describes the approach with the PDF as a payload.
Phil Long: And just to have make sure that everybody's familiar 
  with that and can take a look

Topic: Modeling VC-EDU

Kim Hamilton Duffy: So Anthony, do you want to talk to your 
  additional item of right now.
Anthony Camilleri: Ah, sure, absolutely, I guess, basically I 
  just wanted to try and start some discussion on some of the 
  things we seem to have been say dancing around in the issues.
Anthony Camilleri: I also had at least some first chance with 
  Nathan symbol on about this MSI channel but really wanted to 
  bring it to the main group. And let's say move it forward and
Anthony Camilleri: One of the things I think we need to reach 
  some kind of agreement on is essentially saying what type of 
  concept Central Market level of granularity. And do we want to go 
  in this task force.
Anthony Camilleri: I can essentially say let's say if I look at 
  it from my perspective, there are Mitzi a set of context. I think 
  the visitation one being just being able to represent Gil, which 
  some of the examples we have in there already have
Anthony Camilleri: A secondary seconds, being able to represent 
  our let's say more formal education diploma, which implies say 
  something
Anthony Camilleri: A lot more detail than which typically has 
  great so
Anthony Camilleri: And the third thing would be that I would want 
  to be able to represent what you might call informal education 
  basically just saying, hey, I attended a webinar. And that's it. 
  Are those with let's say be
Anthony Camilleri: My idea of the high levels, but basically I 
  was hoping to start a discussion with the group on what are the 
  that's a fairly basic high level concepts that we need
Anthony Camilleri: To represent. I'm not sure if that should 
  happen as far as let's say a discussion under an issue and the 
  GitHub, or if it's something we should discuss in the meeting.
Anthony Camilleri: But let's say we jump straight into has 
  achieved has credential without having a slightly wider 
  discussion on what are the actual concepts. That's all types of 
  education leave across the spectrum.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: I think that's a great point. And so two 
  responses to that. And let me make sure I'm following the queue 
  as well so two responses. One, I do think it's important to 
  discuss here. I think that my understanding of what we want to 
  accomplish with the specification is exactly what you have 
  mentioned, but at the same time, I'm not sure that's been clearly 
  represented at this point. So I would like to have some tracking 
  around it. That would be a good forcing function to move that 
  issue. So we have a few issues in the VC eating models repo that 
  are not specific to to what you described. Right. And so I think 
  we need to be moving those out and I can move those to the
Kim Hamilton Duffy: VC-Ed repo like the main repo, as opposed to 
  this repo. So I think basically the idea that we clarify scope on 
  this document and then continue iterating here, but make clear 
  distinction between this artifacts that were producing it versus 
  other artifacts. So that's a great idea. If you wouldn't mind.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Opening an issue on that with with what you 
  said that would be super useful and then I can start, we can 
  discuss there. If anyone has any other scenarios that they 
  definitely want to be in that document, but otherwise I'll be 
  moving everything not related out of this repo.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: We do have a Q
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Simone I think was yours to discuss a new 
  agenda item or was that related to what Anthony saying
Simone Ravaoli: I'd say they're related.
Simone Ravaoli: Yeah, this is maybe more general level, the, I 
  guess the issue is to map. And I'm going to maybe abuse this 
  word, what's going on there and a record spec, particularly if we 
  start from
Simone Ravaoli: Etc. I would definitely like new but not really 
  new, but certainly very powerful invisible would be even more so. 
  So just whether it's past, whether it's IMS, whether it's sad. I 
  mean, all different learning records the map them to etc. I will 
  maybe create an application profile of that.
Simone Ravaoli: Leveraging some of the mapping tool that already 
  exists, the credential engine as one or the work done would add 
  matrix. So, have that
Simone Ravaoli: I don't know if that classifies as a new work 
  item, maybe not. But this is an activity that we started as 
  Anthony said, you know, on a sidebar, but
Simone Ravaoli: Feel like this is the right place to foster and 
  then eventually that work could be pushed over the fence on to 
  the I triple E IR Recommended Practices document, I would very 
  much like to see that happening.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Yeah, I think that's a great point. And I 
  thought, maybe I'm wrong. I thought that we had some etc i 
  representation currently in this, but I think
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Let me actually let me pull that up real 
  fast. Yeah, we have example for EDC i i agree on what you're 
  saying. Like, there, there may be sort of more narrow or small 
  goals we have for VC, Ed.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: This, this one draft specification that we're 
  working on. There may be more in depth work that we need to do as 
  a separate work item, but I think that's it's important to have a 
  B CI.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Captured in this and then we can also iterate 
  on. What's the scope of what we want to carry in to this 
  document, you know, maybe it's just some MVP kind of 
  representation of a common
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Common scenario with the DCI, or is it the 
  more in depth mapping work that needs to happen. But I think that 
  that's really important to to keep progressing on
Kim Hamilton Duffy: So some money. I think
Kim Hamilton Duffy: I'm trying to think of how to capture what 
  you're saying.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: I think we can probably do it as a spin off 
  or, you know, sort of in the thread of what Anthony was talking 
  about. And, you know, as we find something that seems maybe too 
  specialized or something. We can start moving from their
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Margin you're up next.
Maarten Boender: That was another an order to for the PDF. So 
  that was answered.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Okay, great.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Simone de to ask when an le R is good 
  question. Um, I cannot keep track of what it means. Even so, it 
  used to be an IR. Does anyone remember I'm guessing Phil would 
  probably know off the top of his head.
Phil Long: Good good good guess learning and EMPLOYMENT RECORD. 
  It is the
Phil Long: New to n of our three letter acronym to LA for an 
  interoperability learner record I LR
Phil Long: And it came about simply from Iowa it morphed simply 
  to be more embracing of the talent workflow pipeline employer 
  community as well. So, so that's what it represents. And I just 
  putting in chat a reference to a tool in development, but it is
Phil Long: That's not what I want. It is in fact
Phil Long: A mapper between
Phil Long: The different standards that has been developed in 
  development, Stuart. Actually, you may be involved in doing work 
  on this as well.
Phil Long: But I, I'll put since I have a chance I'll put the URL 
  in the chat. It does map with a Said's backbone to IMS global to 
  a bunch of existing things that are very US centric, but it might 
  be a starting point to consider what the mapping might look like.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Great, thank you.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Okay. And let me check the queue.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: I think we worked through everyone apology 
  that my queuing system isn't working.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Okay, so there were a few issues and I want 
  to keep in mind with the framing that Anthony provided us that we 
  do need a much clearer scope of what we want to get out of this 
  modeling verifiable credentials for education document. There 
  were a few things that I've been very eager to discuss is to 
  discuss, especially with the group that we have on the call right 
  now.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Nate and Anthony have been commenting a lot 
  in the issues I think I was curious to hear if they have any sort 
  of issues they want to discuss high higher priority for me some 
  things I was very interested to talk about where
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Let's see the image integrity one issue 
  number three and then possibly issues, number one and six, Nate. 
  I'm curious. Did you have a pressing one you wanted to discuss 
  for for the modeling verifiable credentials spec.
Nate Otto: Overall, I think that we have plenty of work that we 
  need to do on these items. And I think that if we can make some 
  of the different models, a little bit more consistent and 
  complete, you know, now that they're in GitHub and the examples 
  are here. I think we've got some good opportunity to actually 
  start analyzing what is different about these different things.
Nate Otto: What purposes can each of these serve and then 
  potentially we can start resolving differences between the 
  different systems like for example if we all feel that A has 
  schema.org hascredential claim. Is a useful claim to use to 
  express the, the fact that an individual has achieved a 
  credential definition, then we can update a number of the 
  different
Nate Otto: Models to that, where they are not just external 
  references to some other spec that is managed by a different 
  group, I really want to move also just talking about
Nate Otto: Recipient identification is your identification and 
  which signature proof methods people propose to use and which
Nate Otto: Authentication methods people propose to us with 
  various forms of bids that they want to support. Like, what are 
  the did methods that are
Nate Otto: Useful for us. And how does a learner approved, they 
  have control of a particular particular did either via an in 
  person challenge across, you know, a desk with an employment 
  manager or logged into a web app.
Nate Otto: Those are the other layers of the stack that we should 
  make sure we're considering beyond just the formats of individual 
  records.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Okay, these are great points on the topic of 
  has performed that's that's actually probably a good one to start 
  with that one is kind of critical in the sense of
Kim Hamilton Duffy: It's we're using it as a bridge to schema.org 
  and or rather, it's a proposed change the schema.org but it 
  having clarity around that will help ensure that our bridges to 
  definitions like credential engine engine and things like that 
  are more stable.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: So with that, let's actually start with 
  number five.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: And I made to Anthony if he's able to talk 
  about this. So let me share my screen as well.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: So this is the proposal of adding has 
  performed a schema.org
Kim Hamilton Duffy: There's some grammatical inconsistency is 
  that none of us are happy with. But basically the ideas that 
  schema.org already has a has credential.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: That the the target that the. Let's see. So 
  that is on that's defined on person I need if this is I haven't 
  looked at this and can you refresh our memory on that one.
Nate Otto: Yeah, sorry, I just realized I was sitting in a room 
  that had Background music playing. So I had to run to the other 
  room. Um, so yes, the proposal here for number five AD has 
  performed schema.org is a assertion that
Nate Otto: Has credential is a useful pattern and we will use 
  that when it makes sense for when there is a credential 
  definition available so much movement definition that has its own 
  criteria.
Nate Otto: Etc represents a maybe a learning experience and an 
  assessment regime issue, you know, that is operated by a 
  particular issue or
Nate Otto: There's another set of use cases. And one of the 
  examples of them is in the models as the open skills assertion.
Nate Otto: Where instead of making an assertion that a learner 
  has achieved a particular set of criteria.
Nate Otto: As assessed by a predictable organization, the issuer 
  is making a claim that the learner has achieved a skill or a 
  competency directly
Nate Otto: So like Phil has achieved communication and it points 
  direct instead of to Phil has achieved a communication badges 
  criteria.
Nate Otto: And so the argument is, maybe it's useful to separate 
  these things in the schema.org vocabulary.
Nate Otto: And when you're saying has credential you're pointing 
  to a particular defined credential and when you're saying has 
  performed you're pointing to a specific competency or other 
  underlying learning objective. Does that make sense.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Right. And the one other thing I wanted to 
  add is that if has credential. We're not already there as a 
  proposed.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Addition to schema.org we probably would have 
  wanted has achieved versus has performed, however, has credential 
  is already there. And so I think what we're doing it, you know, 
  we're saying that will keep as credential and then we'll add has 
  performed as this as this new things. So, for example, open 
  skills assertion.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Anthony, you have the last comment on it. So 
  you mentioned rightly has credentials. Still a little bit 
  unclear. I did did Nate's comments address your concerns there.
Anthony Camilleri: Wow, so I had to chat with leading up to this 
  actual video on
Anthony Camilleri: It. I understand has credential now.
Anthony Camilleri: What I would suggest, and I can volunteer to 
  do the first round of this myself is
Anthony Camilleri: Before we defined, let's say what the 
  grammatical terms are, um, I think it would be useful just to 
  making this all the definitions, meaning
Anthony Camilleri: I in my head I have for definitions that we 
  need to, um,
Anthony Camilleri: And I'm very happy to, let's say, add them 
  directly to the bike sheds file already to an issue to open up 
  for discussion. Once we agree what it is we want to describe the 
  naming is nearly secondary
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Yeah, that's great.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: I'm just updating the spec. So, okay, that's 
  good. It's so I like that we're keeping momentum going on that 
  one.
Anthony Camilleri: There's one though. So nobody expects the 
  nasty surprises are everything that people won't have described 
  in this issue so far. He basically agree with. I think we 
  essentially missing one or two more on top of it. And that's what 
  all the
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Great.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Anthony since we do have you on the call. 
  There is this
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Discussion of image integrity that I'm very, 
  very interested in. Let me. Oh, you know what, I've not been 
  checking the queue. Let me. Okay, so let me before moving on to 
  that.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Call on Phil_Barker.
Phil_Barker: Yeah, thank you.
Phil_Barker: I just wanted to make the quick point that 
  schema.org is very generic vocabulary.
Phil_Barker: And when you put terms into it. They're not going to 
  get used only by the community that you represent they're going 
  to be seen and used by all sorts of communities.
Phil_Barker: So I wonder what our response in this community 
  would be if has performed gets used for things like you know I 
  have performed Beethoven's Ninth Symphony.
Nate Otto: Sounds great.
Phil_Barker: I'm not suggesting it's a problem. I'm just
Phil_Barker: Raising it
Kim Hamilton Duffy: I'm. Let's see, Anthony. Did you
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Did you already go let me call him.
Anthony Camilleri: To go. But actually, that's exactly what I 
  want to use as performed for. So it's a wonderful example.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Excellent.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: So that is one thing. I mean, it, it would 
  kind of help if we could, you know, so in some, in some cases 
  with schema.org you can define
Kim Hamilton Duffy: A range or the domain of types on which 
  something makes sense. And so that's why I'm a little bit 
  confused like so you can say person, you know, we say that this 
  term is defined on person.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: But in terms of what it apply what it applies 
  to can you not also restrict Types There are we, that's maybe 
  more question for Phil
Phil_Barker: You can, but it's a moving and organic vocabulary. 
  So you might put it in with a restricted type
Phil_Barker: But it may well grow after you've put it in.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Yeah, I mean I guess that makes sense with 
  whatever where if we schema.org so but I guess in this case of 
  the example you've given we're all very happy with it. So, but I 
  do want to think about that some more.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: In light of what Anthony's going to add the 
  kinds of terms that we are concepts that we will may want to add 
  before we start thinking about terms.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Let me just check real fast. Both
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Okay, I think we went through the queue.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Next thing I am eager to discuss is okay 
  again with the framing this may not end up being in scope for VC 
  Ed models, but it's something that's very critical to
Kim Hamilton Duffy: To push along and I think there'll be the 
  most momentum in this group is image integrity. So if I'm still 
  sharing my screen which it looks like
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Anthony described
Kim Hamilton Duffy: This common notion of display properties 
  field and
Kim Hamilton Duffy: So I think that the way that he had described 
  it was interesting to me in that it seemed to be adding 
  flexibility to export a verifiable credential as say
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Well, export as PDF XML image or a variety of 
  different formats that you would need printing in the pilots that 
  I've come up with
Kim Hamilton Duffy: It does seem to make sense to have some 
  general notion of, let's see, how do we say, okay, we don't 
  necessarily want to expect that the image representations of a 
  verifiable credential will be
Kim Hamilton Duffy: A specific image encoding format like we 
  can't necessarily expect it will be, you know, just a png or jpeg 
  or even a png or jpeg
Kim Hamilton Duffy: I think that it will end up making sense that 
  we describe this as some sort of general disk. I'm calling it 
  display instructions. In fact, instead of display. Let's see 
  display properties.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: And I want to propose that we start iterating 
  on what that might look like in the context of this group. And so 
  it won't necessarily just be images, corresponding to the 
  credential itself, but it might be common.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Sort of alternative representations to allow 
  things like say if you have a wallet with a bunch of verifiable 
  credentials and you want you know
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Either preview images or images, 
  corresponding to the issue of the claim. So I think that
Kim Hamilton Duffy: For all for all of these, it may make sense 
  to align on a common set of metadata, so that we can at least you 
  know implement our wallets, or our
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Kind of group displays of these things in 
  similar ways Anthony, can I call on you to add more to discuss 
  sort of what you've seen in the DCI model around images and 
  display parameters.
Anthony Camilleri: Yes. Or so they actually update this issue 
  with our latest because we've been iterating a phenomenon. Since 
  then, our first of all the restaurant.
Anthony Camilleri: So we've got we've essentially ought to to 
  word design considerations that can lead us down this approach 
  our number one.
Anthony Camilleri: Member States are really attached to their 
  display performance. So all over Europe. There's
Anthony Camilleri: Laws that says what credit various types of 
  credentials need to look like. And even though you say all the 
  data is if the credential. If you don't display it in a very 
  particular way. It's as good as useless.
Anthony Camilleri: So it's something that we need to support
Anthony Camilleri: And because of this, we also felt that, let's 
  say the display parameters should be part of the assigned a lot 
  because we want to, let's say, Give some assurance that it's 
  being displayed in the correct format.
Anthony Camilleri: But the second part of this is that at least 
  for us. We always try and design for 30 years in the future.
Anthony Camilleri: Which means we wanted to, let's say our 
  express those display parameters wisdom, let's say the most 
  future proof for old or text me
Anthony Camilleri: Um, what that effectively means for us at the 
  moment is that I this fine parameters is basically a block of 
  HTML expressing how that particular credential should be viewed 
  and then the HTML can be let's say a, you know, anything that's 
  can parse HTML can be used to export the credential.
Anthony Camilleri: So yeah, that's basically what there is to 
  say. From our side. So I mean that legally this basically is a 
  container for HTML.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Right. Let me check the queue real fast. 
  Okay, so some questions I have about that. Are you saying that
Kim Hamilton Duffy: That HTML is considered
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Have you said, are you saying that there's no
Kim Hamilton Duffy: No other display options on top of HTML that 
  are required by etc. I at least
Anthony Camilleri: Know, so for us, I need a it's all the 
  parameters we have is a one HTML. And I think we have a separate 
  one for the background image, but the HTML is any HTML, we will 
  display basically that's how we've designed the system.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Right. I think my question is that, you know, 
  in general, like at this layer that we're specifying do we need 
  some sort of abstraction on top of that, even
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Saying, like we it's I'm calling it display 
  instructions, but it would be something like, you know, one 
  option for it would be displayed. She email and then people could 
  put their HTML in there. Another would be, say, a PDF file or 
  link to a PDF file with content integrity hash.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: You know,
Kim Hamilton Duffy: As
Anthony Camilleri: Well sorry for interrupting all I could say 
  is, are we haven't started with our let's say open batch 
  compatibility yet but
Anthony Camilleri: One of the ideas we were playing with was 
  using display properties also to, for example, put the open badge 
  image. So this idea of saying, Listen, this is the different 
  display properties for different formats and systems will be very 
  attracted to us.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Okay, let me see if there's anyone else.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Yeah, in. Let's see, Phil. Yes. So, there
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Here's, here's the thing.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: There's the there's what might happen at 
  different layers of the spec, basically. So I think what I'm 
  describing may bridge several layers and it probably makes sense 
  to
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Tease it apart. But say, for example, I could 
  see value in something at the Le AR rapper or, you know, sort of 
  wallet layer that saying for for earlier wallet implemented is 
  this is the this is where you go to
Kim Hamilton Duffy: You know, find the the thumbnail, like you 
  said, or maybe the image corresponding to the issuing entity or 
  something like that, but that it would be a common set of 
  metadata to
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Let wallet implemented, you know, sort of 
  display things in it. In a similar way, but that
Kim Hamilton Duffy: You know if that's happening at the LCR 
  wallet layer that doesn't necessarily have to be a common 
  standard that other people use
Kim Hamilton Duffy: But at the same time, it would be 
  interesting. Also, to see what makes sense at the say universal 
  wallet layer which is not necessarily edu specific but you know. 
  So I think that there's there's several layers at which this
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Common image or other metadata might be 
  useful to add. It's just we need to start experimenting with what 
  goes where.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: And no one else on the queue for that. 
  There's one other issue that I wanted to get Nate's opinion on 
  specifically in anyone else. So there's this standard definitions 
  of issuers
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Issue number six.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: One thing that has been useful Open Badges
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Sort of definition of an issue or profile.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: For a while, actually, was there. I'm not 
  sure if this still remains. But for a while. The definition of 
  issuer that was using Open Badges and the definition used in the 
  verifiable credential data model was pretty much the same. And I 
  think they both are
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Sort of extending or they relate in some way 
  to schema.org person, perhaps. Although now I'm not seeing that. 
  So I could be wrong but in terms of wallet metadata.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: And any other sort of metadata that you might 
  expose with the with the credential. There's a very useful set of 
  common terms here like well, especially a lot of the first ones 
  that people end up wanting to display as part of wallet sorting 
  and whatever kinds of displays.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: I think that
Kim Hamilton Duffy: In terms of, you know, if we define a common 
  class or type for issuers
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Really the open badge profile that's here is 
  the main one. I've seen. So I've just been using it because it's 
  convenient, but I wonder is it something that would make sense to 
  like all there are, are there alternative types out there.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Is this something that would be convenient to 
  standardize on if possible. So again, this would be something 
  more the LCR rapper or something layer that that we're building 
  as part of this effort, but let me see. Actually, I got to it 
  from here.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: But yeah, so are there are there any other 
  issue or types that are interesting. Would there be any problems 
  with aligning on say the Open Badges type definition of issue or 
  profile. I'm curious if there are any thoughts on that.
Nate Otto: Is Nate I added myself to the queue to respond about 
  it. Sure. Types
Nate Otto: Yeah, so I think Open Badges is a pretty simple and 
  clear approach it. You know, it does use schema.org terms and 
  within the context of Open Badges there.
Nate Otto: Are a set of required terms that if you're going to 
  use a profile as an issuer profile. You've got to present a 
  contact email URL that represents yourself.
Nate Otto: The you know the actual ID of the assuring a couple of 
  the things
Nate Otto: That has been a useful can zap because it does create 
  consistency within some portion of the market. I don't think I 
  mean we're not a standardizing something here, but I think
Nate Otto: They're just inevitably will be some more variance, 
  when we break out of the world of just Open Badges into, you 
  know, a broader, more open concept of verifiable credentials used 
  for
Nate Otto: Education. One thing we want to enable, of course, is 
  to allow decides to be used as issuer IDs and so expressing a. 
  Did you know it comes down to.
Nate Otto: What information is in the did document for that did 
  when you resolve it and would it be possible to even put a 
  schema.org slash name property into
Nate Otto: The did document, maybe with some kids. And so we have 
  to choose, you know, what are some did methods that we propose, 
  what are the authentication mechanisms that we propose to connect 
  the issuer profile revealed through the did document to the proof 
  that is
Nate Otto: So has signed a particular credential purporting to be 
  by that assure
Nate Otto: And we may not have the ability in some scenarios that 
  work for those use cases to require like say these Open Badges 
  properties to appear.
Nate Otto: In those days, I think overall, that's fine, let's get 
  to some useful examples, but I think the in the verifiable 
  credentials data model spec. It does express the utility of being 
  able to D reference an identifier for an issuer and that applies 
  to both your eyes and HTTP scheme and dads.
Nate Otto: And then being able to get some useful information 
  back that allows you to authenticate whether the signature is 
  real but also just learn more metadata about who the issuer 
  expresses himself back
Nate Otto: That's all I'll say on that for now is I think we've 
  got to
Nate Otto: Do some experimentation and also line up the other 
  pieces of the tech stack that we want in the place. And one of 
  the other efforts that we might want to take a look at is that 
  trust over IP network, which
Nate Otto: Has a whole bunch of work about a stack that enables 
  issuers to be trusted on the hyper ledger Aries blockchain 
  through various different verifiers and I'm not sure what 
  capabilities that particular tech stack has but they are 
  interested in education as well.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Right. Okay, that sounds great.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Um, let me check the key real fast. Okay 
  Phil, Europe.
Phil_Barker: And just what it said in the queue really here asked 
  whether the other profiles for describing people who issue 
  credentials credential engine will have minimum requirements for
Phil_Barker: Organizations that are offering credentials and I'll 
  take those out to not them to the GitHub issue for you.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Sorry about that, uh, too many windows open 
  couldn't find it. But yes, that would be great would like to see 
  that a lot. And, and we're at time. Thank you everyone for 
  joining and we'll see you next week.
Simone Ravaoli: Thank you. Thank you.
Simone Ravaoli: Thank you.
Simone Ravaoli: Good to see everyone
Maarten Boender: Yeah, thanks. Interesting.
