[2023-07-18T17:33:51.445Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-07-18T17:33:51.447Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-07-18T17:33:57.003Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-07-18T17:34:02.466Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-07-18T17:34:30.164Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-07-18T17:35:16.050Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-07-18T17:35:49.015Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Nis is also out today
[2023-07-18T17:36:05.487Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-07-18T17:36:05.487Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-07-18T17:36:09.995Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah I can scribe.
[2023-07-18T17:36:12.956Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2023-07-18T17:36:14.505Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: And to record the meeting.
[2023-07-18T17:36:22.019Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: I didn't hear the recording is on it says it's recording them.
[2023-07-18T17:36:34.002Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: And let's see and then I need to kick the transcriber right.
[2023-07-18T17:36:38.988Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: So let me make sure I have to play it.
[2023-07-18T17:38:05.141Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/817
[2023-07-18T17:38:52.635Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/820
[2023-07-18T17:38:52.728Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/820
[2023-07-18T17:39:52.284Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/833
[2023-07-18T17:40:39.269Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: starting with vocab

PRs, oldest to newest

Pull 817, term definitions, nis, not here. Leaving comment.

820, bankaccountcredential, adewale afolabi. some conversation, changes requested, not yet addressed

833, mine, add product to intent to import
[2023-07-18T17:40:53.341Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/838
[2023-07-18T17:40:55.201Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: I'd suggest closing, if you don't intend to address merge conflict
[2023-07-18T17:42:02.726Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/840
[2023-07-18T17:42:53.754Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/573
[2023-07-18T17:43:49.913Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: sure

838, postal address inlining

one file changed, BoLCredential, instead of postal address refers to in file directly

approving, merging 838

last, fix syntax errors in entry number, 840. Indentation on entry number was causing schema to not parse correctly. merging 840

interop, 573, russell
[2023-07-18T17:44:05.121Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	russell: made changes as suggested on last call, content-type to accept, specific enum vals
[2023-07-18T17:44:06.402Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/578
[2023-07-18T17:44:12.376Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: 578, from chris
[2023-07-18T17:44:38.063Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: fixing interop test nis wrote, missing one of the vars for client audience for postman test. added it in
[2023-07-18T17:44:43.547Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/579
[2023-07-18T17:44:52.643Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: 579, also chris
[2023-07-18T17:45:28.341Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: finishing up changes from 457, specific scopes to interop and conformance suite, this modifies actual tests in conformance suite
[2023-07-18T17:45:35.595Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: approving, merging 579
[2023-07-18T17:45:57.903Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: not objection, but difference bn verifierclientscope and clientscope. Dow e need that distinction?
[2023-07-18T17:46:24.126Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/580
[2023-07-18T17:46:24.803Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: we are using in verifierid and verifier endpt, if we want to change should change in all three endpoints
[2023-07-18T17:46:39.012Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: PR 580, chris
[2023-07-18T17:46:58.042Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: final PR fixing 457, modifies docs wrt specific scopes
[2023-07-18T17:48:04.519Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: looked at earlier, issue with changes you made to respec document

There's repeated language, clarify once in respec omit in readme documentation

happy to do that, commit the changes, 3 or 4 places like this. If I do that & commit the changes maybe we can merge offline after this meeting
[2023-07-18T17:48:18.443Z]	<TallTed>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-07-18T17:48:57.856Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: great. on trace vocab, issues by least recently updated

any action items, first?
[2023-07-18T17:49:44.773Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: prioritize any regarding media-types? just merged that PR. I suspect pile of issues that predate current use of media types. "add support for jwt" / "use media types"
[2023-07-18T17:49:52.704Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: no results searching "media"
[2023-07-18T17:50:03.163Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: less an issue for vocab than interop
[2023-07-18T17:50:13.688Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/562
[2023-07-18T17:50:34.289Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: interop, issues, media. 562 remove refs to JsonWS2020
[2023-07-18T17:50:40.524Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: we may have done that
[2023-07-18T17:51:47.920Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: in use case description, vc jwt ambiguous, better to refer to media types.

don't want to create new issue, but let's leave comments on ones already open
[2023-07-18T17:51:52.202Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/453
[2023-07-18T17:52:12.041Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: 453, allow jwt in credsVerify. chris
[2023-07-18T17:57:52.999Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/405
[2023-07-18T18:00:18.343Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-07-18T18:00:32.734Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/587
