Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-09-20-vcapi/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-09-20-vcapi/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC API Task Force Transcript for 2022-09-20

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Sep/0158.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions and Reintroductions
  2. Announcement or Community Updates
  3. VC API and Data Integrity Updates
  4. Snapshot VC API for VCWG?
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Manu Sporny, Patrick (IDLab), Paul Dietrich 
  GS1, Logan Porter, Steve Eisler, John Henderson, Dave Longley, 
  Kayode Ezike, Stuart Freeman, James Chartrand, Mahesh Balan - 
  pocketcred.com, Pavel minenkov

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
<patrick_(idlab)> This page still mentions 4pm ET (fixed now)
<manu_sporny> Thanks for the pointer, fixed the page to the right 
  time... 3pm ET now.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Manu Sporny:  Alright welcome to the verifiable credentials API 
  call this is our weekly call this is at the new time and it looks 
  like a number of our regulars probably didn't get the memo that's 
  it that it's at a new time so we may not be able to get too much 
  done on this call today but we'll see how it goes on the agenda.
Manu Sporny:   De for the.
Manu Sporny:  Is just a quick recap of the w3c technical plenary 
  meeting with respect to how it may or may not affect the VC API 
  will talk about the data Integrity discussion that happened at 
  w3c TPAC we'll have a discussion around potentially snapshotting 
  or moving partially moving over some subset of the VC API to the 
  verifiable credentials working group for publication as.
Manu Sporny:   Note in will do issue.
Manu Sporny:  Processing as time permits are there any other 
  updates or changes to the agenda.

Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions

Manu Sporny:  But if there are no updates let's go into 
  introductions and reintroductions I note that there are a couple 
  of new people on the call so if you don't mind if you're new 
  please Interiors introduce yourself to the group.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead pass.
Patrick_(IDLab): I just wanted to give a few updates to three 
  things so last week it was the hyper Ledger global forum which 
  some people that ideal add participated.
Patrick_(IDLab): We another update so we also have currently a 
  client engagement idle up with the solution provider they want to 
  get sort of the solution against the VC API and I asked them if I 
  could mention their name here so it's a company called IP Toki 
  they are based in Montreal Canada they are interested in 
  participating and these calls and eventually so I sent the 
  invitations or they might show up.
Patrick_(IDLab): Julie introduced themselves and I think they 
  would be.
<kayode_ezike> Unfortunately unable to hear anything after trying 
  two different clients
<kayode_ezike> May have to drop
Patrick_(IDLab): It And discussing how to sort of collaborate to 
  make their implementation known and that's it I also another 
  subject maybe don't have to discuss it today but there was an 
  article published by identity woman last weeks or two weeks ago 
  and it made a bit of the sparked a couple discussions and the 
  hyper Ledger community so I.
Patrick_(IDLab):  I was curious to have.
<mahmoud> can you link the article in question please?
Patrick_(IDLab): Some opinion from the people here in the w3c 
  superior was basically an article regarding the an incred data 
  model pushed forward by hyper Ledger and comparing it to the w3c 
  so yeah I was just curious if you have heard of the article and 
  if you have an opinion on that and that's that's pretty much it 
  for me thank you.
Manu Sporny:  Great thank you Patrick yes I've seen the article 
  hesitant to comment on it other than many of those things have 
  been said over the past seven plus years five six seven years and 
  we if there's interest here I mean we can discuss it it tends to 
  it's probably going to it's probably a pretty divisive topic.
https://identitywoman.net/being-real-about-hyperledger-indy-aries-anoncreds/
Manu Sporny:  I'm a bit hesitant to bring it up in this form 
  right I mean we're supposed to be focused on VC API knots and on 
  creds and that sort of thing so the place for that conversation 
  might be the more generalized ccg call but if you could provide a 
  link Patrick I think that would help everyone understand which 
  article you're talking about I see Steve on the Queue go ahead 
  Steve.
<mahmoud> WELCOMES STEVE!
Steve_Eisler: Hey sorry about that one barge in this time yeah 
  not so much new to the group but certainly new to you all most of 
  you all honesty visor I'm working for a company called Credivera 
  of western Canada we are very much responsible for certifications 
  for place and compliance and we're taking the step into feces 
  here and yeah looking forward to helping contribute on the API 
  side of things.
Manu Sporny:  Wonderful welcome to the group happy to see you 
  here Paul.
<dave_longley> /me wow, i didn't hear anything Steve said ... 
  anyone else?
<mahmoud> It worked for me
Paul_Dietrich_GS1: Hello I'm Paul Dietrich from gs1 you sgs1 is a 
  global standards body that stewards the numbering for supply 
  chain products and tooties trade items Etc we've been engaged in 
  DC's for a few years now and finally we're kind of moving forward 
  to join this group and see how we can participate.
<mahmoud> Steve from Crediver
<mahmoud> Credivera*
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead great welcome Paul I'm noting coyote and 
  Dave or having audio issues reloading the browser sometimes helps 
  we do have a phone dialing number but I forget what the extension 
  is unfortunately and then again if you are on Mac OS or iPhone 
  there have been issues that you can try switching browsers 
  sometimes that clears up the.
Manu Sporny:   The audio issues.
<logan_porter> I'm having issues on mac and android as well
Manu Sporny:  Is for those audio issues and welcome Paul 
  wonderful to have you here.

Topic: Announcement or Community Updates

Manu Sporny:  Let's see next up on the agenda are well Community 
  updates in general any Community up Jason have a Patrick you 
  covered a few any other announcements or Community updates the 
  only one I have is that next week is rebooting the web of trust 
  in The Hague there are going to be a number of us.
Manu Sporny:   There and so.
Manu Sporny:  The meeting when next week is probably going to be 
  a while is canceled for those of you that are going to be there 
  we'll see you there for those of you that we won't I'm sorry we 
  won't see you but we will meet again at the same time the 
  following week so this is our permanent time for the call now and 
  we will meet regularly at this time because it's.
Manu Sporny:   That's what the poll showed.
Manu Sporny:  Is the best time for everyone any other 
  announcements or Community updates.

Topic: VC API and Data Integrity Updates

Manu Sporny: https://www.w3.org/2022/09/15-vcwg-minutes.html#t10
Manu Sporny:  Alright then moving quickly into our agenda the 
  first agenda item has to do with kind of discussions at the w3c 
  technical plenary going to link to the minutes from the w3c 
  technical plenary there one of the discussions or one of the 
  topics that was discussed.
Manu Sporny:  Deepak was this concept of streamlining the data 
  Integrity specification so the reason that it has an effect on 
  some of the VC API stuff is that when it comes to testing the VC 
  API as some of you that are new here we have this test Suite that 
  test various aspects of the be Capi issuing verifying things like 
  credential status.
Manu Sporny:   Different cryptography.
Manu Sporny:  And of course we had to settle on some kind of did 
  to run the test Suites under and that's did key right now so all 
  the tests weeds that do signatures and everything is did key for 
  testing the streamlining data Integrity work is about effectively 
  standardizing doing doing the global standard for the data 
  Integrity mechanism of securing verifiable.
Manu Sporny:  Which is one of the mechanisms and we're trying to 
  lock it in basically So within the next let's say nine months 
  probably closer to six months we will have the data Integrity 
  specs locked in such that people can start committing to certain 
  cryptography Suites long-term like five plus years you know 
  long-term kind of support for.
Manu Sporny:   Or these cryptography.
Manu Sporny:  Those discussions happened they didn't necessarily 
  result in.
Manu Sporny:  Absolutely concrete decisions meaning that we had 
  at least one individual may be more say that they objected to the 
  new direction for the crypto sweets in unfortunately I mean it's 
  publicly known it was Joe and unfortunately just not here today I 
  was hoping to have a discussion with him about his concerns 
  around crypto sweets but in general the the suggestion.
Manu Sporny:   Was to.
Manu Sporny:  Find the crypto sweets the basically the data 
  Integrity crypto sweets and wrap them into the main verifiable 
  credentials context now you don't have to do that if you're 
  dealing with data structures that are other than verifiable 
  credentials suggest like a json-ld document and you want to 
  digitally sign it you can still use all the Legacy crypto sweets 
  and you'll be able to use new crypto sweet so we're not talking 
  about preventing anything that anybody has been doing to date 
  we're.
Manu Sporny:   Going to suggest.
<manu_sporny> Slides around proposal for cryptosuite 
  streamlining: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hrqozY2EGZ8i8y40abyEuJmIb6hCiRS-37pdj6bhBLY/edit#slide=id.g1482ccb90af_0_90
Manu Sporny:  Asian for developers to make it easier to support 
  multiple crypto sweets so I won't go into the details there are 
  slides here around the proposal slides around Roseville for 
  quickness sweet streamlining.
Manu Sporny:  At there's the slide back that puts the proposal 
  forward in general there was enough support for us to start 
  putting in a bunch of PRS in this is just a heads up to this 
  group that we're probably going to use the VC API to test all 
  those new crypto sweet so I'll pause here to see if anyone has 
  any objections on the new path or if you're kind of like I have 
  no.
Manu Sporny:   Idea what you're talking about we need more.
Manu Sporny:  So any any confusion or objections to the path 
  crypto sweets seem to be taking and using BC API to test them.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Paul is that an old Q or is that a new 
  one.
Manu Sporny:  Okay lq Muhammad go ahead please.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I just want to be clear that there were as 
  far as I can tell two parts of that proposal one part is to 
  include Signature suites in the base verifiable credentials 
  context and another part of how do we ensure backwards 
  compatibility and long-term use so please review those slides 
  that were very very helpful I just want to I just want to 
  underline those two key points.
Manu Sporny:  Yes that was yeah excellent point Muhammad they 
  were really two decisions that need to be made and we can make 
  those decisions independently of one another and at no point are 
  we going to lose backwards compatibility like you can still do 
  the old stuff this was just a proposal for us being able to make 
  it easier for some of the new stuff.
Manu Sporny:  Patrick you did have your hand up did you want to 
  go or did that answer your question.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah I can just maybe voice what I'm thinking 
  like so for me yeah just like this like a right to bit confusing 
  and that's my first reaction but I just want to make sure I 
  understand so the from what I understood the last time the goal 
  was to have individual test suite for each cryptographic methods 
  so is that still going to be the way the tests are going to be 
  driven except there will be more tests.
Patrick_(IDLab): The sort of proof being outside of the context 
  and the other one to prove being sort of included or embedded 
  under contact so those would be two separate tests.
Manu Sporny:  Um so there will still be one test Suite / crypto 
  sweet so if you're using like e.t. to 5519 signature 2020 there's 
  a separate test suite for that the new stuff is going to be 
  called like EDSA 2020 or BBS 2020 or ecdsa 2020 sorry 2022 those 
  new.
Manu Sporny:  Ones are going to get one test.
Manu Sporny:  The sweet so they will always be this one-to-one 
  mapping between test suite and Krypton sweet and that won't 
  change what what you said was slightly nuanced there's a slightly 
  nuanced difference there the group has not made a decision on 
  whether or not to include this new it's called it data Integrity 
  proof type like if they include that in the base verifiable 
  credential version 2 context.
Manu Sporny:  Has to include new crypto sweets as far as they 
  follow you know that General design pattern but that decision 
  hasn't been made yet so the we expect the test Suite might change 
  if we were testing verifiable credentials so either you're going 
  to need a new data integrity.
Manu Sporny:  In the worst case you're going to need to use a new 
  data Integrity context in addition to the base verifiable 
  credentials context that's it the worst case which is the case 
  we're in right now or the verifiable credential working group 
  will decide you know what let's make it easier on developers and 
  let's just put that into the base context and if that happens 
  then the only thing you need to digitally sign a verifiable 
  credential is the base context and you will by doing that you 
  will be able to support.
Manu Sporny:  BBS and all kinds of different contexts Mahmoud 
  you're next and then Dave Longley.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I didn't kill I think this was an old key.
Manu Sporny:  Oops sorry old you go ahead Dave.
Dave Longley:  Yeah so I think no matter what there's going to be 
  a data Integrity context that stands alone so it can be used with 
  things other than VCS and that also implies that there would be 
  tests where that context is used as well so I think no matter 
  what in this is to Patrick's Point about there being two 
  different sets of tests for things that are certainly for things 
  that are not be seized data Integrity tests would be run against 
  the day.
Manu Sporny:  Yep hopefully hopefully that helps and hopefully 
  this is not confusing things more than then helping it really 
  helps to have seen the you know the the slide deck and absorbed 
  it go ahead Paul.
Paul_Dietrich_GS1: Your mommy you mentioned in the on the TPAC 
  meeting that it was hard for developers and that's what motivated 
  this change can you be specific about what exactly was hard and 
  how this is making easier.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: +1 Great question
Manu Sporny:  Sure yeah that's that's a great question maybe that 
  will clarify it so developers have basically said stop making us 
  create new crypto sweet contexts in is there an easier way for us 
  to do this so it was mostly a complaint with like no solution 
  right is it was you're making us include all these different 
  crypto sweets we don't want to do that anymore in there was a 
  concern around.
Manu Sporny:   So sweet.
Manu Sporny:  In like for every new crypto sweet we will need a 
  new json-ld context and it turns out that the vast majority of 
  those new crypto sweets everything was the same in the crypto 
  sweet context except for like the type so the only thing that you 
  know people were basically copying and pasting these things and 
  the only thing that was really changing was the type like ed2 
  5519 signature 2020 or Json web signature 2020 or like that was 
  the only.
Manu Sporny:   Only thing that was changing so it was a lot of 
  kind of template copy paste code that Developers.
Manu Sporny:  The new proposal basically says let's just call 
  these all all of these things data Integrity proofs in the only 
  thing that changes is the name of the crypto sweet which is the 
  string and so there will be so basically all these cryptic sweets 
  will share a base context in the only thing that changes is kind 
  of the crypto sweet string and by doing that all of a sudden you 
  know.
Manu Sporny:   If the working group adopts.
Manu Sporny:  There you just need a base verifiable credential be 
  to context like they will be like they'll be two contexts in the 
  verifiable credential they'll be the base verifiable credential 
  one and then they'll be the market vertical specific one like for 
  education or traceability or things of that nature hopefully that 
  helped go ahead Dave.
Dave Longley:  And so today developers if they want to add a new 
  crypto sweet to any of their applications software wherever they 
  want to put it let me start with the ideal case if they want to 
  add one is they install a new library and hook that Library up to 
  support that crypto sweet the what they have to do today is they 
  have to do that and then they additionally have to update any 
  context document loaders that they have to support whatever new 
  context are brought in by the new suites.
Dave Longley:   And they have to update any Jason schemas that 
  might in may or may not.
Dave Longley:  Current or new properties and there's a number of 
  other little side pieces that are involved there that you may or 
  may not have to touch or deal with and so this is designed to 
  make it so that it's much much easier to to add or remove crypto 
  sweets from your software because the core format is not changing 
  everything's been pushed down into the layering is changed so 
  that any proof values and things like that.
Dave Longley:  The data that is specific to the crypto sweet so 
  the only thing you're Jason scheme is looking for is like proof 
  value now and doesn't need to change your crypto sweet changes 
  the context don't need to change because any of the semantic 
  values have been pushed out of that into a different space so you 
  don't need to change those things and so ultimately we've gotten 
  as close as we think we can to making it so that when you want to 
  add or change support for crypto swedes you just get a library 
  that.
Dave Longley:  That and hook that up to your application there 
  aren't other things that you also have to.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah and you know maybe it would just it's easier 
  to just to show this I think II think you know the mistake I made 
  here was that most of the people here we're not a w3c TPAC and 
  said this is probably all very new and confusing let me share my 
  screen in point to what the old version and the new version looks 
  like and maybe you know that's what we spend time doing.
Manu Sporny:  Can folks see my screen.
Manu Sporny:  All right so this is what we do today I'm just just 
  look at the center part of the screen here so today we have a 
  version 1 credentials context and then you have your Market 
  vertical Pacific 14 like education or supply chain or citizen 
  identity and today we have to add a crypto sweet to say this is 
  how I'm going to digitally sign it so you end up having like 
  three contexts here right and it's this third one.
Manu Sporny:   That people were complaining about right they were 
  like hey that's really.
Manu Sporny:  And difficult please don't do that in the only 
  thing that it really did was it established this type value here 
  right so this is today if people are doing this today they don't 
  have to change to this new mechanism so they can continue to do 
  like if people were not having a problem with this they can 
  continue to do this but we're trying to be responsive to like 
  implementer feedback and so.
Manu Sporny:   The suggestion was.
Manu Sporny:  I can't we just figure out a way to wrap this thing 
  into the base context so the proposal is to move to something 
  that looks like this so in the next working so within the next 
  nine months the suggestion we are going to move to a V2 context 
  for verifiable credentials V1 all the old V1 stuff will continue 
  to work like don't worry that stuff you know.
Manu Sporny:   And will continue to.
Manu Sporny:  Do its thing but the new V2 one will could 
  potentially fold the crypto sweets into it the type for all in 
  this is just data Integrity proofs it has nothing to do with the 
  job based stuff right so for data Integrity stuff the type will 
  always be data Integrity proof but will introduce this new value 
  called crypto Suite which will call out the specific crypto 
  sweet.
Manu Sporny:   This may like.
Manu Sporny:  Might look at this and go like I don't understand 
  what the big deal is but fundamentally we're not having to 
  declare any new json-ld types from new new crypto sweets that's 
  the big change in my making this big change then all of a sudden 
  the base V2 context supports many different types of crypto so 
  the list of all the different types of crypto we can support with 
  this new model is down here at the bottom right all these 
  different types of crypto sweets or.
Manu Sporny:   Or are supported.
Manu Sporny:  This new model so let me stop there Mahmoud you're 
  on the Queue and then Patrick.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Would you mind going back one slide or two 
  slides to the side that has the current.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  One thing I would note here is what you're 
  seeing on the screen only applies to for example e 2519 that 2020 
  some of the other sweets are already embedded in the V1 context 
  so if you look at the V1 context right now which I'm going to put 
  in as a link in chat you'll see that there are existing sweets 
  like it if it 519 signature 2018 right and.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   What we're doing here isn't revolutionary 
  right.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Doing something that's not already currently 
  being done we're just generalizing this solution so that it 
  applies to a bunch of other at the sweets without having to you 
  know having to do this work for every single news with the gets 
  added.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah so yeah that's exactly right my mood like the 
  mistake we made in the V1 context was we started to lock into 
  very specific crypto sweets in that bounds how like it bound how 
  crypto sweets could evolve with how verifiable credentials 
  context would evolve it bound them together and we're trying to 
  split them apart right now because their number of these that 
  like people just don't use today like RSA.
Manu Sporny:   HR 2018 and like.
Manu Sporny:  This R1 signature isn't used this one's used so 
  we're trying to do less of a we don't want to pick winners this 
  time around but we always said but we do want to help developers 
  you know stay fairly we just want to help developers you know 
  make it a bit easier for them Patrick go ahead.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah I was just wondering so you showed the 
  slide of the sort of found a standard prototype of what it would 
  look like if the crypto sweet would be and better than the 
  existing context do you have an example of the other alternative 
  which would be to create a whole new context for the crystals 
  could persuade you have like a visual example of that.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah that's that's this one right here that's what 
  we do today so we create a totally new context for each crypto 
  sweet today that's the current state of the ecosystem.
Manu Sporny:  So note how this is a separate crypto Suite that's 
  defined and included separately.
Manu Sporny:  Then this one doesn't have that third one it 
  doesn't have that led to 5519 one.
Patrick_(IDLab): Okay I see.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah so just removes the need to do that.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  As an implementer what this means is you 
  will now need to add that context every time you see a data type 
  of a context is not in the existing V1 crypto sweet which is a 
  huge headache whereas it could easily be done for you for was it 
  80% of the quickest way to find I'm not sure and you wouldn't 
  lose the ability and this is the key part if you want to go and 
  add your own crypto sweet.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   You would not lose that ability can.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thanks for your own thing it just gives you 
  this other Avenue that captures the vast majority of people.
Manu Sporny:  Yep exactly right we're not losing any we're 
  nobody's losing any features this is just an optimization 
  basically so the suggestion is you know we start using the 
  optimization in this group but again it's like it's this optional 
  it is an optional thing people don't have to do this but that's 
  kind of the direction that we think people are going to go 
  because it's just you know easier to eat Caesar.
Manu Sporny:   ER to work with like you don't.
Manu Sporny:  Remember which crypto sweet context you need to 
  include when you're when you're running code anymore.
Manu Sporny:  Okay any questions concerns comments on that I 
  think that it's just this is just like a heads up to the group 
  like this this looks to be where the verifiable credentials you 
  know working group might be headed some variation of this future 
  in it will you know we will probably start seeing new crypto 
  sweet test Suites driven by the VC API that kind of test this 
  functionality go ahead Patrick.
Patrick_(IDLab): Is it a concern that while you developed a new 
  test suite for the crypto sweets that this work could eventually 
  be made deprecated depending on the direction that they decide to 
  go or is there a way to sort of plan in advance and make those 
  test Suite sort of adaptable to the to whatever direction is 
  taken with this.
Manu Sporny:  At this point enough I think we've got enough 
  direction from the group where we're not very concerned about 
  major changes like we're not expecting there to be major changes 
  the biggest change that's going to affect the test Suite is 
  whether or not the working group decides to include the data 
  Integrity proof definition in the base V2 context or if they say 
  no we don't want to.
Manu Sporny:   Do that.
<dave_longley> it shouldn't be a huge lift in the test suite code
Manu Sporny:  I have a separate data Integrity context that's the 
  only thing that would that would impact the test Suite so you 
  shouldn't be a huge lift.
Patrick_(IDLab): Say it be a good idea to Boop to be like 
  proactive and include those two scenarios and the test suite and 
  added as a flag if that's at all possible or that would be kind 
  of redundant.
<dave_longley> YAGNI (you aren't going to need it) principle ... 
  don't do it until you know you need it
Manu Sporny:  I think we should just wait for the group to decide 
  right I mean that's it's an excellent question but I think the 
  group is probably going to make that decision in the next two 
  months and you know there is like this really strong compelling 
  need that we absolutely need these cryptos tweet kryptos we test 
  Suites to be done in the next two months so I think we can wait 
  largely on that.
Manu Sporny:  Did I answer your question Patrick.

Topic: Snapshot VC API for VCWG?

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/304
Manu Sporny:  Okay all right okay well that's just the heads up 
  that's agenda item 2 VC API and data Integrity updates let's go 
  ahead and move on to the next issue which has to do with how this 
  group might want to move some of the work we're doing here into 
  the VC.
Manu Sporny:  So the the question here trying to get this larger.
Manu Sporny:  Um so we have a number of and I know their new 
  people on the call it sure let me let me show folks what we're 
  talking about the Cochran ground the conversation here so 
  currently this group The VC API work item group has a set of 
  interoperability test reports that we work on.
Manu Sporny:   We have them for.
Manu Sporny:  Words we have them for verifiers I think we have 
  that Edie yeah we have it for cryptos sweets.
Manu Sporny:  So for like the issuer's we have it's one two three 
  four five six companies implementing the VC API for issuing right 
  now and we have a whole bunch of interop tests that we do against 
  the API right we have a whole bunch of tests for verifiers and we 
  have again the same six implementers implementing the BC API and 
  demonstrating a whole bunch of interop.
Manu Sporny:  Level we have like three implementers for the Ed to 
  55:19 Signature 2020 test Suite that does again data model 
  checking and then cryptography cryptographic signature checking 
  and then does an N by n test I think yeah it doesn't end by in 
  test to see if one organization can generate is verifiable 
  credential with signature and the other organization can verify.
Manu Sporny:   If I it but positive and negative tests.
Manu Sporny:  We have all these test Suites in all of these test 
  Suites are driven at their core by the VC API specifically the 
  issuer in point in the verifier in point so we have all this 
  infrastructure here that's super useful in the verifiable 
  credential working group needs a new test Suite in some of the 
  requirements put forward or that you know the.
Manu Sporny:   The test Suite.
Manu Sporny:  Should be able to be run on a regular basis we 
  should be able to hook into anyone's issuance or verification 
  infrastructure to test it we should be able to do in by n Matrix 
  testing we should be able to test very specific normative 
  requirements in the specification like razor sharp focus on like 
  the you know the the issuer property must have this form with 
  these fields and all that kind of stuff right.
Manu Sporny:  We looked at a whole bunch of different types of 
  testing so the VC working group is looking for a new way of doing 
  testing digital Bazaar is suggesting that we should just reuse 
  the VC API specifically just the issuer in just the verifier in 
  points to do testing because of data integrity and the crypto 
  sweet stuff uses the VC API really successfully to do and by in 
  testing right.
Manu Sporny:   Right so.
Manu Sporny:  It would be useful to have a subset of the VC API 
  documented in the verifiable credentials working group as 
  effectively a note to talk about how the test Suite you know what 
  the endpoints for the test we had and everything are so the 
  suggestion here is that we move at least those two end points 
  into the verifiable credential working group and there's kind of 
  a giant.
Manu Sporny:   Hand wave around like.
Manu Sporny:  That like do we do it inspect form do we do it in 
  OAS form if we do that then how do we keep the work that we're 
  doing here aligned with the work that's going on there and then 
  how do we also make sure that it's lined with the traceability 
  folks you know use of parts of the VC API there's just a lot of 
  coordination you know work that needs to go on and that's kind of 
  what the discussion today is about like one do we want to try and 
  do that like are we support are the.
Manu Sporny:   Well in this group.
Manu Sporny:  Verifiable credentials working group reusing BC API 
  for the test Suite to are we interested in at least providing to 
  of the endpoints issuance and verification to the VC working 
  group you know do we feel like they're stable enough to do a test 
  Suite to run a test suite and then three we need to talk about 
  like the details of coordinating these things between the 
  multiple groups.
Manu Sporny:   So I'll stop.
Manu Sporny:  Um and see if there any questions any clarifying 
  questions around you know what we're trying to do here we take a 
  pause.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Patrick.
Patrick_(IDLab): If someone else's question regarding what you 
  just explained it they can go ahead and like something that's 
  more related to the slides that you shared.
Manu Sporny:  Okay well is it does it go back into another topic 
  Patrick.
Patrick_(IDLab): It's about proofs.
Manu Sporny:  Okay let me finish this thought and it may be that 
  right now we just don't have any feedback on this about whether 
  people want to do it or not and then we can we can go back to 
  that in Patrick please remind me if it slips my mind please 
  interrupt and remind me Logan go ahead.
Manu Sporny:  Yes yeah because we wrote it so here let me let me 
  go to the VC data model thing there's this implementation so if 
  you go to the current verifiable credentials data model in you go 
  to the header there's this thing that says implementation report 
  and if we click on this we will go this is the implementation 
  report for a verifiable.
Manu Sporny:   Giles right and so.
Manu Sporny:  Scott every normative statement in the 
  specification both positive and negative test for it and then 
  it's got every implementer along the top so like brightlink redly 
  evernham factum gravity so you know all these people implemented 
  it this was a static test Suite which basically meant like we 
  gave each each Library implementer we gave them the test suite 
  and then they ran it against a local.
Manu Sporny:   Wised copy.
Manu Sporny:  To generate a report on whether or not they passed 
  each test so it was kind of self-reported right in the problem 
  with this test Suite is that basically they ran it once and if 
  they got a whole bunch of green check marks many of them never 
  came back they never ran it again so for some of these folks 
  these tests are like two plus years out of date we have no idea 
  what their current Library does and we would have to like get in 
  touch with a human being.
Manu Sporny:   And get them to run.
Manu Sporny:  By hand again it also required them to create also 
  created us to sorry it also required us to invent a command line 
  text based protocol that looks very much like the VC API but it 
  only works on like standard in and standard out on a console so 
  we would have liked this command line tool if you were a library 
  implementer we would have a command line tool call a binary 
  version the command line version.
Manu Sporny:   None of your.
Manu Sporny:  We would feed a verifiable credential to you and 
  then you would give us one back that was you know digitally 
  signed or we would ask you to verify it and you would tell us 
  whether or not it past verification so it was this completely 
  bespoke command-line driven thing and today we have the very the 
  VC API it the VC API basically does the same thing right so the 
  question was do we want to keep using this old bespoke man.
Manu Sporny:   Line thing or do we want to just use the VC API 
  because.
Manu Sporny:  I supports everything that we'd need to use to test 
  and we can run be Capi on a nightly basis or weekly basis there 
  was some pushback I think Gabe from Square was like can we please 
  do this in Docker because like you shouldn't you shouldn't have 
  to run your own infrastructure to be able to pass the test Suite 
  we have tried doctor before it was not a successful outcome.
Manu Sporny:   But there was there was a suggestion that.
Manu Sporny:  Maybe somebody else would run your Docker instance 
  you know as a VC API endpoints so that we could do testing so 
  it's like the open-source developers wouldn't have to run it 
  somebody that's a company that has infrastructure you know could 
  run it or run it in a in a droplet so sorry that was a very 
  long-winded answer to your question Logan but this is what the 
  old test Suite looks like currently and it has some pretty 
  serious flaws.
Manu Sporny:   Is that the VC API could probably help with that.
Manu Sporny:  Answer your question Logan.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah and that's a that's an open question we know 
  some people don't want to do that and we know that that could 
  what's the word it could disenfranchised some of the smaller 
  open-source developers and we definitely don't want to do that 
  and so there I think there's a I think we get past that problem 
  if there is some organization that's willing to.
Manu Sporny:  Forever run Docker instance for example but we also 
  understand that some companies just don't want to put their 
  infrastructure up 24/7 365 because you know people can try and 
  attack it and all that kind of stuff with that said we have six 
  companies that are doing just that right now each one of these 
  companies has infrastructure running 24/7 that the test Suite 
  runs against Patrick Iran the queue.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah it's want to point out is like what you 
  just described is exactly what we do at the idea lab so we have 
  an engagement right now with a client so we provided a private 
  environment we can work with them to deploy virtual machines 
  whatever they need to deploy their solution and then they come 
  have someone connect to their environment deploy their solution 
  we provide them with the public IP follicular mobile IP with the 
  public and point and then we run tests.
Patrick_(IDLab):  against their solution so that's sort of one 
  thing that that we.
Patrick_(IDLab): Roll that we want to take in the community and 
  another thing I wanted to mention so for this test Suite here one 
  of the projects that I've done personally is I made a fork of the 
  test Suite got rid of all the negative testing and put it in the 
  docker container and made it so that you could feed to that 
  Docker container and already sign verified.
Patrick_(IDLab):  Bowl credential.
Patrick_(IDLab): Would just validate the data format so that's 
  one sort of an old project that I've made that I thought was 
  pretty interesting so I called it a sort of a VC validator simple 
  application so that was one way I was going with the darker 
  another question I had so for that test Suite you need to fill 
  configuration file with generator that was I believe 
  traditionally meant to roll with like a binary.
Patrick_(IDLab):  command line.
Patrick_(IDLab): And one of the example was the PCGS solution you 
  know that was made by I believe it's your company if I'm correct 
  digital bizarre.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah so I was able to run this with the latest 
  version which is sort of a darker base as the way of doing it so 
  I was able to end the generator line put Docker command and it 
  would feed the test end is Docker container and the tests ran 
  fine another question I had maybe you would have a better idea if 
  this would be possible is for that generator command to do some 
  sort of curl.
Patrick_(IDLab): West against an API and.
Patrick_(IDLab): She did those.
Patrick_(IDLab): Well into this curl request do you think that 
  could be possible it was my my next sort of thing to play around 
  with with this this sweet.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah certainly it should be possible yeah 
  absolutely I think what we're trying to do so all these things 
  are possible right I think what we're trying to do is to add a 
  continuous integration continuous deployment kind of process to 
  this so that you know the whole ecosystem can see that on any 
  given day how how everyone's doing with respect to conforming to 
  the spec and conforming to the crypto sweets and conforming to.
Manu Sporny:   To the.
Manu Sporny:  Stuff right we're trying to you know take go away 
  from the static testing which is what we did for the VC 10 and 11 
  and we're trying to go to more Dynamic testing which is what 
  we're doing with the VC API test Suites but the short answer 
  Patrick is yeah I mean you should because it's a command-line 
  driven thing you can always make a curl commands right a curl 
  call out to an external system.
Manu Sporny:   Do the testing.
Manu Sporny:  Okay I think that's enough on this I you know this 
  is just I guess this is well is kind of a I don't know if we're 
  going to get to consensus today on whether or not we want a 
  snapshot to be Capi to move it in the verifiable credentials 
  working group maybe folks can think about it over the next two 
  weeks and then if you have thought.
Manu Sporny:   Thoughts please.
Manu Sporny:  As comments to the issue issue three or four 
  because we will need to make a decision on this shortly around 
  you know how we're going to do testing my mood you're on the 
  queue.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So I guess I had a pretty big three points I 
  want to make I want to answer the doctor I think specifically I 
  believe they are currently using this at if it has been working 
  great and it's made a lot of this easier for smaller implementers 
  I would love it if we can do it I understand if it's you know 
  hard.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:   For people to run.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  And so I'm it's a bit of a I would love it 
  if we can do it in a reasonable way I've seen a reasonable way to 
  do it I'm just not sure how we could apply it here I had a 
  question on the purpose of the note that would go into the VC 
  working group it started off like you were saying we want to add 
  the VC issue we're in verifier as a note into the VC working 
  group and then it felt like you were saying that note will be 
  used to.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  A straight this is how you can do.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So the question is basically is it the first 
  one where it's just we want to add this is how you can do 
  issuance and verification using the VC API to the VC working 
  group or was it more this is how you can do it for the purpose of 
  demonstrating this is how you can do test right and last but not 
  least how do you envision the work progressing afterwards is this 
  something where the ccg will no longer be working on it is this 
  something where we would only.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Working on it at the working group.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah it all excellent questions mom and I put 
  myself on the key to respond go ahead Paul.
Paul_Dietrich_GS1: Yeah just a comment on nomenclature money I 
  think that right now as a newcomer I see this BC apis and API and 
  the VCA API test Suite is a test suite for that API but now what 
  you're proposing is that this DC API is the API for a test suite 
  and so like the nomenclature here for me gets pretty confusing 
  and it makes me like question again we'll what is this API is it 
  a test Suite or is it an API that's in production or is you know 
  what I'm saying.
Paul_Dietrich_GS1: We now have a test suite for the API and then 
  API.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah both excellent it it kind of dovetails with 
  what Mahmud was saying so my apologies I think I confuse things 
  at the let me I'm looking for so this is the verifiable 
  credentials API specification that we have right now right so 
  there is a specification that talks about how you issue verify in 
  present today.
Manu Sporny:  Or work item in this group that work item is being 
  used for a variety of other things it's being used to drive 
  issuing and verification because the API is used for a showing in 
  verifying so there's a very there's a very strong distinction 
  between the testing stuff that we're doing here in the testing 
  stuff the verifiable credentials group is doing that's one set of 
  work or sorry those are two separate things.
Manu Sporny:   And then there's.
Manu Sporny:  Capi which is the main specification that we're 
  working on here so the suggestion is the VC API is useful for a 
  variety of different things in the verifiable credentials working 
  group has as one of its potential deliverables documenting ways 
  that credentials can be issued and verified so the VC API 
  specifically listed as something that the group can can.
Manu Sporny:   Work on the verifiable credentials working group.
Manu Sporny:  We cannot do a global standard on it there were 
  objections to doing that but what we can do is talk about it and 
  document it in that kind of stuff so this document that's in our 
  control right now we can either share control of or handed 
  completely over to the verifiable credential working group so 
  that's that's item one and that it's just about the VC API and 
  what it does which is issue verify in present.
Manu Sporny:   Ain't right okay so that's that's all.
Manu Sporny:  We can move it over and have them work it at work 
  on it as a note in the verifiable credentials working group.
Manu Sporny:  Okay the second thing is we are also working on 
  tests in all of the test Suites that we're working on here use 
  the VC API to run the test Suite right and so there's a whole 
  bunch of testing and test Suite stuff that we that we use in the 
  mechanism that we use to drive the test Suites are the BC API and 
  so the verifiable credentials working group needs that capability 
  and we have.
Manu Sporny:   Of it.
Manu Sporny:  Shin is do we want to move that capability over we 
  do we want to enable the verifiable credentials working group 
  with that capability so that's kind of the second you know 
  question that's that's under discussion did that help clarify 
  things Paul or did that make it.
Manu Sporny:  Worse who are you still.
<dave_longley> The VCWG needs a test suite. It could be 
  implemented via an HTTP API. A new bespoke one could be created 
  to do that -- or we should say, hey, we've got such an API, 
  implement to that.
<dave_longley> should/could
<mahmoud> It is a test suite to test the VCAPI
Manu Sporny:  I think we lost them.
<paul_dietrich_gs1> present-
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think Paul sorry was it yeah the key 
  dropped yeah I think it is a test we did that study Capi so I 
  think what the name is entirely accurate unless I'm completely 
  misunderstanding your proposal here on my new your proposal is 
  let's use the this test Suite as a blueprint for any future test 
  we want to use also we're putting in the VC API as the note so 
  let's have this test Suite to test that note.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Networking group as well.
Manu Sporny:  Yes almost the last bit we could do we could decide 
  not to do you know it's an optional thing but yeah I think you 
  got it Paul we lost you there I think we got what you were saying 
  but would you like to kind of restate.
Paul_Dietrich_GS1: No that's all right I'll let it go money.
Manu Sporny:  Okay all right yeah I mean your points well-taken 
  Paul I mean you know I think we're trying to we're trying to 
  figure out the best way to convey this stuff because it is 
  multiple different things that are potentially meshed together 
  and the clearer the delineation the easier it is for us to kind 
  of talk about it so in the future probably what we should do is 
  talk about.
Manu Sporny:   The VCA.
Manu Sporny:  I the specification has its own thing in what do we 
  want to do with it and the question there that folks should you 
  know spend the next two weeks thinking about is we believe that 
  no other API does issuing in verifying so specifically the VC API 
  is the only API that does issuing and verifying now specifically.
Manu Sporny:   You know with.
Manu Sporny:  Did come in open idoi DC for VCI stuff those things 
  kind of do presentations so there's a there's a question around 
  you know presentation but for as far as we know when you're 
  talking about back ends kind of like microservices and HTTP API 
  is the VC API is the only one that does issuing in verifying for 
  like back office stuff.
Manu Sporny:   So the suggestion is.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: +1
Manu Sporny:  Could we just move issuing and verifying the parts 
  of the spec that have to do with issuing and verifying over to 
  the VC WG we don't think that that is going to be a controversial 
  thing because it's already in scope for the charter and it's 
  doing things that the other thing and you know the other 
  protocols don't do Patrick you put yourself on the Queue and then 
  you yourself off.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah that's a good point.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah I think they're just short on time I'll 
  make in that style just going to point out like so the the Aries 
  Cloud agent does have an end point that can they don't call it 
  issue but they call it sighing a credential which returns you 
  verifiable credential another endpoint that verifies it so 
  there's two specific and point available on an API that does 
  those two functions so I just wanted to point this out.
Manu Sporny:  And we do have areas people that are in the group 
  so I think they would have to see if they feel I mean they could 
  you know they could they could try and put their note in as well 
  so yeah maybe it's just going to be controversial anyway we go 
  about it.
Manu Sporny:  Noting mirror over time my apologies for going over 
  time we will not have the meeting next week because next week is 
  rebooting the web of trust in the meantime folks should think 
  about you know whether or not we want to move this work into the 
  VC working group and and we'll come back and discuss the topic in 
  two weeks okay thanks everyone safe Journeys to rebooting if 
  you're going there and if not.
Manu Sporny:  In your schedule next week take care bye.
