[2020-12-08T00:08:09.000Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2020-12-08T00:08:09.070Z]	<kimhd>	Okay, are there any new people that would like to introduce themselves, feel free to speak up
[2020-12-08T00:08:25.150Z]	<Timothy_Ruff>	This is Timothy Ruff. I'm a first timer. I know a few of you. And really just excited to be here and hear what's going on. It seems like you guys have some good momentum and I have followed some of the
[2020-12-08T00:08:36.640Z]	<Timothy_Ruff>	The notes from previous meetings going back look like several years so, excited to listen to what you guys are doing.
[2020-12-08T00:08:56.500Z]	<kimhd>	Anyone else new to these calls
[2020-12-08T00:09:05.260Z]	<kimhd>	Okay, reintroductions. This is the opportunity if you've switched focuses recently you're wanting to tell the group what you're now interested in you can reintroduce yourself.
[2020-12-08T00:09:28.960Z]	<kimhd>	I think we can just go ahead and get started. We have a lot of lot to cover. First, let's get to the DOE wallet overview and then we'll talk about the modeling educational verifiable credentials open issues.
[2020-12-08T00:10:16.000Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: DOE Wallet
[2020-12-08T00:10:17.980Z]	<kimhd>	Other presentations we've talked about sort of the context of the DOE learner wallet. This one we're going to dive in pretty quickly into the approach.
[2020-12-08T00:10:32.080Z]	<kimhd>	If you're interested in learning more about the context then just let me know. There's some other presentations, we can cover.
[2020-12-08T00:10:44.620Z]	<kimhd>	DOE Learner wallet. It is a Department of Education funded effort and the original idea behind it was there's a set of at risk schools where it would be beneficial to use this kind of technology that we're building -- learner controlled records. So the idea was -- let's actually try this out on some real higher educational institutions.
[2020-12-08T00:11:29.350Z]	<kimhd>	This is a joint work of MIT and DOE, still figuring out some pilot partners. There's a list of criteria, but it's basically we want to cover a broader set of scenarios and make sure that the learners really can use them in a verifiable credentials ecosystem.
[2020-12-08T00:12:07.180Z]	<kimhd>	It's a very short, aggressive time span. So what are the deliverables -- it's a learner wallet standard, keeping in  mind that the word standard is used very loosely here. It's a draft standard that we are all familiar with that groups like this can come up with. And then over time we turn over to actual standards track groups, then an open source wallet code base and detailed documentation of that.
[2020-12-08T00:12:38.110Z]	<kimhd>	Once the higher educational institution partners are identified, deploy the open source wallet as a reference implementation.
[2020-12-08T00:12:47.050Z]	<kimhd>	And then evaluate the implementation efficacy and learner perception. This is supposed to be rolled out roughly by all next late next spring, early summeriish but there's phased deliverables in between.
[2020-12-08T00:13:08.800Z]	<kimhd>	This is a lot of work for a short amount of time. And so, the good thing is that the Department of Education partner behind is Sharon Leu is working closely with our other, what I call, well-intentioned benevolent government contacts, like Anil John from DHS, who has done a lot of work to drive the verifiable credential interoperability test suite through the DHS SVIP fund. And so the way that we've been approaching this is what I call building a minimum spanning tree connecting the work that this group has done and the work of the CCG, decentralized identity foundation, T3 network.
[2020-12-08T00:14:06.220Z]	<kimhd>	Getting things connected in terms of standards that actually build on existing efforts and complement them and make sure it's an ongoing, growing effort. With that in mind.
[2020-12-08T00:14:21.160Z]	<kimhd>	I want to first talk to the foundations of the approach and then we'll get a little more specific. Two core foundations and then one core alignment
[2020-12-08T00:14:37.270Z]	<kimhd>	You can view it as a draft standard and reference implementation, but
[2020-12-08T00:14:45.310Z]	<kimhd>	There's it strongly based on on two items. One of these is the LER wallet / wrapper spec that people who are familiar with the T3 innovation network are probably familiar with.	Jim Goodell was a lead author on this in what he described is two things.
[2020-12-08T00:15:20.980Z]	<kimhd>	One is a way to express a wide variety of educational learner/worker claims embedded into this LER wrapper, which is basically a verifiable credential. So that was really critical for bridging verifiable credentials to things like PESC XML transcripts, Open Badges, etc. So some of that work in terms of more detailed mapping we're continuing in this task force.
[2020-12-08T00:15:51.430Z]	<kimhd>	But this is a really good foundation for just making things work out of the box. Now, in addition to the payload data models, it outlines a set of functional requirements which I realize is a really good set of requirements to base this effort om.
[2020-12-08T00:16:09.880Z]	<kimhd>	It called out functional requirements, but out of scope was specifically how that's happening. So I see this effort as starting to chip away and talk about how.
[2020-12-08T00:16:21.760Z]	<kimhd>	How to accomplish those functional requirements. The Second Foundation is the universal wallet interop spec and so
[2020-12-08T00:16:31.540Z]	<kimhd>	We'll, talk a little bit about that. Basically the universal wallet interop spec. We've probably talked about many times, but it's a sort of a foundation for a wide variety of digital wallets. So this isn't the same thing as a learner wallet, rather learner wallet would be based on this universal wallet. But it basically allows interoperability across a bbroader array of wallet standards.
[2020-12-08T00:17:04.660Z]	<kimhd>	So it's very important to align with that because it helps increase the way that learners can actually use their records.
[2020-12-08T00:17:15.250Z]	<kimhd>	The universal wallet interop spec is both interface and an implementation. You don't have to use the implementation but you can. So the way that we're planning to use it is -- doing a lot all the work that can be done at that layer do that. And then lastly,
[2020-12-08T00:17:44.200Z]	<kimhd>	The DHS SVIP interop test suites is a really useful model for helping improve interoperability across different approaches. So
[2020-12-08T00:17:57.250Z]	<kimhd>	Before these test suites were developed it was really difficult to know -- say I'm a company that makes that that makes a product that issues verifiable credentials and and you do the same. But how do we really know all of our stuff works together so
[2020-12-08T00:18:20.830Z]	<kimhd>	That was actually a lot of work to do, but through this program, there was developed a set of issuer API's and verify or API's that
[2020-12-08T00:18:31.690Z]	<kimhd>	A broad array of issuers verify our libraries could actually test against to ensure that there is interoperability. So we see this as a really important foundation to use and continue
[2020-12-08T00:18:46.600Z]	<kimhd>	Note that all of these efforts are really things that we want to invest in because independent of this particular project. These are the things that help ensure longevity for the overall effort.
[2020-12-08T00:19:01.090Z]	<kimhd>	This is a more detailed list of standards and alignments, and it's not necessarily complete so feel free to mention things that may be missing.
[2020-12-08T00:19:15.340Z]	<kimhd>	This is an area that there's a lot of work in progress draft exchange request protocols, we need to list. And that's going to be one of the most challenging parts of this or interesting parts of this
[2020-12-08T00:19:33.940Z]	<kimhd>	We don't have to read this but I want to include just for reference in the LER wrapper wallet spec, what does it call as the functional requirements for the wallet. And so, it calls out very clearly receiving LERs, persists, select send, and then it says what it may be able to do
[2020-12-08T00:19:58.420Z]	<kimhd>	So again, it says what it should do it doesn't say how. So what this effort can really where this effort can really benefit is starting to fill in details of that from an LER wallet perspective and mapping it on to verify credential, decentralized identifier, and related LER standards.
[2020-12-08T00:20:21.730Z]	<kimhd>	On the identity side, it does call out relying on a proof of control identifier that allows a specific individual to positively assert the record is authentic and it's issued to that person.
[2020-12-08T00:20:47.890Z]	<kimhd>	So I like that framing because that's very consistent with the fact that a verifiable credential.
[2020-12-08T00:20:54.940Z]	<kimhd>	Is not restricted to taking a decentralized identifier as a subject -- it takes a URI which can be a decentralized identifier and we know a lot of efforts are very interested in decentralized identifier based approaches, but at the same time. It's interesting to explore other methods as well. And so I think the main thing of this calls out is the value of something that a learner can prove control over and so
[2020-12-08T00:22:08.560Z]	<kimhd>	Let's look at this view over here first.
[2020-12-08T00:22:13.090Z]	<kimhd>	One thing that, as I've been looking through the universal wallet spec. So the way I describe the wallet as described there is it's pretty generic and pretty dumb in a way
[2020-12-08T00:22:30.940Z]	<kimhd>	It doesn't necessarily have a concept of, well, this is something we're still debating -- whether the wallet that we're describing there has a concept of verifiable credentials versus whether it's a separate layer that would allow it to switch between okay here's my verifiable credential wallet versus here's my digital currency wallet.
[2020-12-08T00:23:31.990Z]	<kimhd>	This is universal wallet interop spec, we have a lot of discussion on the issues happening right now about, what's the right level of granularity.
[2020-12-08T00:23:43.030Z]	<kimhd>	Notice that there's some operations that you would expect to be common to any sort of digital wallet like import, export, lock, unlock, query.
[2020-12-08T00:23:55.750Z]	<kimhd>	But then there are some that are more specific to a verifiable credential wallet like issue, prove; whereas some are more specific to a digital currency wallet like transfers. So we're talking about the modeling of that and how that manifests to the spec. But basically what we're building is this very layered approach.
[2020-12-08T00:24:16.270Z]	<kimhd>	But then in terms of actual storage like say when you add something to the wallet. How can you make sure that the storage can be to a wide array of backing stores so
[2020-12-08T00:24:28.960Z]	<kimhd>	There's a lot of different approaches that people are using. And then there's a lot of different use cases. Sometimes you want it to be stored on device. Sometimes you want it to be in
[2020-12-08T00:24:39.190Z]	<kimhd>	What's it called now confidential storage, which is the new name for identity hubs and encrypted data vaults.
[2020-12-08T00:24:47.890Z]	<kimhd>	And so abstracting over that abstracting over identity, or rather identifier methods so that those can be pluggable
[2020-12-08T00:24:58.450Z]	<kimhd>	The universal wallet already calls out a sort of layer of indirection there, but we need to make that more explicit as part of this work and then also demonstrate some appealing use cases for the examples and reference code for the use cases we come up with
[2020-12-08T00:25:16.510Z]	<kimhd>	In the data model, there's additionally related concepts about, what would be in a universal wallet, but
[2020-12-08T00:25:25.990Z]	<kimhd>	But so we're in the process of grouping/ categorizing those now.
[2020-12-08T00:25:30.550Z]	<kimhd>	What I'm getting at is that the wallet will consist of some things that are  applicable to any wallet. So the concept of connections. They may be used differently in a verifiable credential wallet versus a currency wallet and profiles, which we're calling a way of grouping sets will this name won't necessarily be the final name, but it might be a way of like grouping for youracademic history versus your you know what you want to present in this social context.
[2020-12-08T00:26:10.750Z]	<kimhd>	Then up here is sort of the layer that the universal wallet doesn't really talk about right now.
[2020-12-08T00:26:18.790Z]	<kimhd>	Or rather, if it does, it's sort of not as cleanly defined. So this is going to be a really interesting area where the functional requirements of the LER wallet come in. So, and those have to do with interactions. So how do I get a credential frrom an issuer, how do I exchange it with a relying party.
[2020-12-08T00:26:42.820Z]	<kimhd>	Other usage patterns that may be things like selective disclosure
[2020-12-08T00:26:50.260Z]	<kimhd>	Again, this is the use case dependent, how, how much we get into it, but we want to start clarifying how this all fits into this effort.
[2020-12-08T00:26:58.930Z]	<kimhd>	And then lastly schema. So the universal wallet. It's only awareness is a	Verifiable credential, but we know that as we develop you can do richer kinds of operations. If you know what's in that credential. So what are the kinds of things that people might want to do and how can you expose that functionality. Those are the kind of things that will be interesting to cover there. Now, in terms of the interactions, there's one thing I wanted to call out which the learning economy folks, especially Nathan and Jackson had started which is a data flow perspective.
[2020-12-08T00:27:50.830Z]	<kimhd>	What the flows are from issuer to holder
[2020-12-08T00:28:09.190Z]	<kimhd>	And then once the holder has a verifiable credential, how do they pass on that presentation to holders.
[2020-12-08T00:28:21.850Z]	<kimhd>	We want to bring this effort back into scope, and these items up here are not necessarily in scope of the universal wallet layer. 
[2020-12-08T00:28:37.780Z]	<kimhd>	There's influence; this layer will use or customize things from the, the lower layers, but these are the kinds of efforts that will be working on. S
[2020-12-08T00:28:52.390Z]	<kimhd>	This one, I don't know what that's called, yet but that's really one of the focuses of the learner was like learner wallet that's not the universal wallet, if that makes sense. So with that, I'm going to stop there.
[2020-12-08T00:29:07.360Z]	<kimhd>	And I wanted to see if there's any comments or discussion about the approach, let me bring up cat now.
[2020-12-08T00:29:19.990Z]	<kimhd>	Probably important to include smaller might be interested, rather than yes. So that's a good point. Those facing imminent potential insolvency, obviously, that's the nightmare scenario that we're worried about. But yes, we should rephrase.
[2020-12-08T00:29:53.560Z]	<kimhd>	What recipient identifier types are compatible. I think that what this effort where this effort can benefit the community is calling out what are good criteria, really. So we're going to have some reference implementations for the use cases. But there's other work that's happening. 
[2020-12-08T00:30:28.780Z]	<kimhd>	In terms of you know what what makes a good learner identifier method. So the did rubric is an attempt to call out more general framework for aligning them.
[2020-12-08T00:30:41.110Z]	<kimhd>	This link right here is the design decisions that the DCC came up with looking into	the learner identity method criteria. So things like for the learner you there are certain characteristics that you want that may not necessarily apply to the issuer
[2020-12-08T00:31:07.000Z]	<kimhd>	You want it to be portable, cheap or free ideally, interoperable.
[2020-12-08T00:31:31.600Z]	<ottonomy>	Yeah, I'm interested more in which identifiers and a proof of control protocols that partners in this work actually do want to use rather than the criteria by which we might assess one of these things, eventually, if we don't have any ideas. Yet, of which did methods are are interesting for people to try out the hard to even formulate criteria. Are there any personal control protocols or specific did methods that view here.
[2020-12-08T00:32:02.860Z]	<kimhd>	The easy one to do that offers proof of control, but does not offer the, the longer-lived options is just did:key.  It relies on re-issuance by the issuer if in case of identifier loss. So it's not ideal. But it can be used for demonstration or for cases where you can be guaranteed that the issuer can reissue to the learner. There's a few methods we're evaluating that are close to that -- very lightweight, but with some rotation ability. 
[2020-12-08T00:34:41.950Z]	<kimhd>	And then the other thing that I want to call out is that there can be URI-based methods outside of decentralized identifiers, or KERI. So we won't have a list of recommended DIDs, but reference implementation, instructions for how to add a new identifier, and a set of criteria for evaluating learner DID methods.
[2020-12-08T00:36:17.350Z]	<juan_caballero>	I was just gonna add to that that KERI works in a couple of different configurations and depending on how you build it, or how its installed in a given place ,could work with what you said previously about a sort of custodial reissue
[2020-12-08T00:36:42.520Z]	<juan_caballero>	This sort of centralized recovery could be done with KERI quite well in terms of the way I know a lot of people that are using conventional identities for now with VCs have this idea of bootstrapping existing like account management instead of key management and so if someone needs to have their stuff re-issued
[2020-12-08T00:37:13.750Z]	<juan_caballero>	They just call the existing one 800 number of the, you know, university or identity provider and get them to rotate, you know, send a new one that works really well with KERI base	Did.
[2020-12-08T00:37:34.900Z]	<juan_caballero>	One thing that's a little one particularly important aspect in the did rubric that might be we're thinking about early on as a functional requirement is whether or not to support or  even ban methods that have historical verification and in the sense of being able to look up what the key material was for a. Did you know directly on a specific day in history. For the purposes of verification. I know that there's some debate about this and	Did methods vary a lot on this, but I, the reason I mentioned is that that creates drastically different architectural assumptions, whether or not that's present or not present so that that kind of verification might be a thing.
[2020-12-08T00:38:25.240Z]	<juan_caballero>	That could rule out some methods.
[2020-12-08T00:38:35.980Z]	<kimhd>	There's two points, like, one is that the historical verification. On the issuer side that is tremendously valuable because it can allow people to verify older issued credentials without reissuing. I'm assuming you're talking about the learner side right
[2020-12-08T00:38:59.320Z]	<juan_caballero>	Yes
[2020-12-08T00:39:17.050Z]	<kimhd>	So yes, there's a couple things going on there because KERI does outline a set of cryptographic key management best practices that other decentralized identifier methods are starting to
[2020-12-08T00:39:30.970Z]	<kimhd>	Use now so pre rotation and things like that so
[2020-12-08T00:39:36.400Z]	<kimhd>	And I think that there's a mix of, you know, there's the decentralized, I didn't. There's essentially identifiers, but then also they decentralized identifiers can have flexible methods of authentication, like say using a the university login. So I think that where this gets interesting is being able to talk about specifically for some learner use cases. What are some some valuable things that we can do and we can start implementing those
[2020-12-08T00:40:26.740Z]	<kimhd>	P1, you're up
[2020-12-08T00:40:27.760Z]	<Phil-T3>	Up. Sorry. Thank you. I just wanted to clarify when you put up the diagram.
[2020-12-08T00:40:34.060Z]	<Phil-T3>	With the blurry text on the right.
[2020-12-08T00:40:38.470Z]	<Phil-T3>	Upper part is about creating the credential and the VC in the first place in the lower part is really about presentation, creating a presentation of those VCs
[2020-12-08T00:40:49.420Z]	<kimhd>	Right.
[2020-12-08T00:40:49.990Z]	<Phil-T3>	When I read it. And so you're saying that yours is focused on that lower part
[2020-12-08T00:41:35.860Z]	<kimhd>	Let me reshare that diagram.
[2020-12-08T00:41:44.800Z]	<kimhd>	So one thing in terms of that diagram on the left.
[2020-12-08T00:41:53.200Z]	<kimhd>	To the extent that we're layered on top of the universal wallet. There is some work of this effort that affects that lower layer.
[2020-12-08T00:42:09.280Z]	<kimhd>	So some of the work does affect the lower layers. A lot. The one part of it is conceptual clarity that the universal wallet needs and we can help with
[2020-12-08T00:42:21.400Z]	<kimhd>	But I think to a large exten, we will be able to get that to a point where we consider that kind of good enough for our purposes, and I really see most of the effort happening up here.
[2020-12-08T00:42:33.520Z]	<kimhd>	Specifically what are good ways to achieve these interactions, but then, you know, accepting that we won't we're not building the one standard for all time. We want to make sure to be clear that it's an MVP
[2020-12-08T00:43:12.550Z]	<kimhd>	On to the diagran, from holder to issuer, a holder might want to request verifiable credential. 
[2020-12-08T00:43:22.600Z]	<kimhd>	What are the bits of information that the holder would need to exchange to the issuer in order to get the verifiable credential. What are the protocols and sort of work in progress standards at each step. So we're going to be filling this in with reference to where the work is happening
[2020-12-08T00:43:55.180Z]	<kimhd>	I think that, in some cases, what we'll be doing is sort of a simpler version of of specs already underway, like we've like the DCC has done for the credential request progress.
[2020-12-08T00:44:08.530Z]	<kimhd>	It's really breaking down some of the more complicated standards into the core of what we need to do.
[2020-12-08T00:44:19.060Z]	<kimhd>	Here's the both in terms of the Protocol and the payloads that are relevant. So we want to use that to inform existing standards that you know
[2020-12-08T00:44:29.080Z]	<kimhd>	Our draft standards that may allow more complicated functionality but but also making sure it's easier to just get started with these minimal scenarios.
[2020-12-08T00:44:40.600Z]	<kimhd>	Credential exchange. There's a few
[2020-12-08T00:44:43.690Z]	<kimhd>	Methods underway there, but I think we also want to understand how how this connects to things like badge connect
[2020-12-08T00:44:51.580Z]	<kimhd>	So I think we're doing a couple things. We're,  getting the the pipeline flows going then understanding how these things relate to common use cases in the in the EDU space so
[2020-12-08T00:45:11.500Z]	<kimhd>	I think combination like filling this end with greater depth with greater detail and getting the MVP is really critical for. Let me go back a slide for for this layer specifically
[2020-12-08T00:45:27.280Z]	<kimhd>	But then, you know, for each of these layers. That's, that's basically a similar thing usage patterns and, you know, depending on how much we get into things like
[2020-12-08T00:45:38.410Z]	<kimhd>	Minimal, minimal and selective disclosure as we talked about in last week CCG call
[2020-12-08T00:45:51.460Z]	<kimhd>	Um, let me see if we had anyone else that I'm missing.
[2020-12-08T00:45:59.020Z]	<kimhd>	Kerri, you're up.
[2020-12-08T00:46:01.300Z]	<Kerri Lemoie>	There as a little bit late, so sorry if I missed this new and over it. Is it within the scope for learners to import their existing digital credentials.
[2020-12-08T00:46:14.950Z]	<kimhd>	I think it will. At the beginning it was not necessarily in scope, but I think it will end up being by virtue of a use case that we're likely to demonstrate it with which is basically a CLR wrapped in an LER
[2020-12-08T00:46:29.680Z]	<kimhd>	So thats related to one of the pilots we will likely be partnering with a vendor that is issuing CLR and so we'll want to demonstrate a round trip --  like existing CLR to LER CLR and then vice versa. So there's different characteristics that you can get each way. But I think that that will be a useful demonstration of how these can be sort of bootstrapped across.
[2020-12-08T00:47:03.940Z]	<kimhd>	And then related to that, the different properties that you get with one vs the other -- the trust model, the means of authentication. There will be a lot of considerations that we can call out as next steps. So if we could improve decentralized verification of records that are currently centralized that could be really interesting.
[2020-12-08T00:47:49.420Z]	<Kerri Lemoie>	Yeah, it would be a very juicy, right. Cool. Thank you. This
[2020-12-08T00:47:58.810Z]	<kimhd>	I think we should probably get to the VC model issues. 
[2020-12-08T00:48:22.000Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Modeling EDU VCs
[2020-12-08T00:48:22.570Z]	<kimhd>	One thing I wanted to get back to see if depending on who we have. Okay. First, were there any issues that that people wanted to talk to in the VCU models. So let me let me bring that over here.
[2020-12-08T00:49:29.890Z]	<kimhd>	If we can figure out this one, this would really help us with a lot of the other a lot of the use cases that we're trying to demonstrate. So let me share my screen.
[2020-12-08T00:49:56.860Z]	<kimhd>	the VC ED models document talks about a few use cases, but over time, we start adding different use cases and this issue was tracking like we want to be very clear up front. What are the, what's the scope and level of granularity so that we can kind of move forward with this and move any more difficult issues that may require special attention outside. So we started calling out what's in scope. What's out of scope.
[2020-12-08T00:50:40.480Z]	<kimhd>	There was a PR to address this issue. So as PR number 18 and that's where Anthony gave us a good idea of the concepts that we want to express in the context of that discussion, we came up with the idea of -- how do we reuse schema.org types which are educational occupational credential and educational educational program, etc
[2020-12-08T00:51:26.650Z]	<kimhd>	So we were originally saying things like Person hasAchieved something or Person hasCredential, et 
[2020-12-08T00:51:42.280Z]	<kimhd>	We were trying to reduce the number of terms that we that we had because we wanted to reuse certain types with minimal impact a schema.org
[2020-12-08T00:51:54.910Z]	<kimhd>	Phil Barker proposed Action. In schema.org there is this Action type with a bunch of different subtypes, that we may use to relate the person to either the accomplishment or the credential, etc. 
[2020-12-08T00:52:42.460Z]	<kimhd>	We might end up having to add all these different properties and so is there a generic property that could work for specific actions so you know person has executed or has executed action that might apply, no matter the Action subtype.
[2020-12-08T00:53:01.270Z]	<kimhd>	 This is the thing that I want to move forward. The most because I think we're still trying to land. What are the schema.org
[2020-12-08T00:53:11.470Z]	<kimhd>	Terms that we need to add that will help a lock, you know, use of schema.org types which help us better bridge to things like credential engine.
[2020-12-08T00:53:22.570Z]	<kimhd>	So I think that Phil isn't on the call.
[2020-12-08T00:53:28.330Z]	<kimhd>	And I wanted to skip over. Oh, Phil is. great.
[2020-12-08T00:54:01.720Z]	<PhilBarker>	Yeah, I think that's a reasonable approach.
[2020-12-08T00:54:06.280Z]	<PhilBarker>	I think you were probably right. When you say that this app should be a separate issue.
[2020-12-08T00:54:12.310Z]	<PhilBarker>	Because it would be useful to sort out what
[2020-12-08T00:54:15.850Z]	<PhilBarker>	What the actual types of relationships are that we want.
[2020-12-08T00:54:21.190Z]	<PhilBarker>	You know, if it is just three, then you know perhaps having three properties would be reasonable. If it's going to be more than that, then
[2020-12-08T00:54:29.470Z]	<PhilBarker>	Having a generic property will perhaps would be better.
[2020-12-08T00:54:33.190Z]	<PhilBarker>	Right, what, one other thing that I'd like to mention now is that this could be as well as the direct property that you mentioned. So, you know, we could
[2020-12-08T00:54:49.330Z]	<PhilBarker>	We could have a property has credential has achieved.
[2020-12-08T00:54:55.090Z]	<PhilBarker>	That links directly from the person to the credential the skill and we could use the achieve action to provide more information about when the tree happened.
[2020-12-08T00:55:12.100Z]	<kimhd>	And Jim brings up a good point about person action versus organization action because I realized this credentialing action that's my reading of that is more of an organization action.
[2020-12-08T00:55:30.310Z]	<PhilBarker>	Yes, the credentialing action is a little bit different. That comes from CT DL from credential engine. ACTING AGENT is slightly different in that one to the pattern from the others.
[2020-12-08T00:55:47.170Z]	<kimhd>	Nate you're up.
[2020-12-08T00:55:51.760Z]	<ottonomy>	Yeah, I was just wondering if we're thinking about general concepts is the idea of associating an action with a credential equivalent to associating evidence of achievement with a credential.
[2020-12-08T00:56:08.800Z]	<kimhd>	Good question.
[2020-12-08T00:56:18.730Z]	<dmitriz>	It sounds like in our use case that is the case. That's true.
[2020-12-08T00:56:28.420Z]	<PhilBarker>	One of the things that you can associate with an action it is I forget the exact name of the term, but it's an outcome. You know, it's
[2020-12-08T00:56:39.910Z]	<PhilBarker>	What the outcome was so if the action is writes an essay you can point to the essay that's been written that might be relevant.
[2020-12-08T00:56:50.950Z]	<kimhd>	Right.
[2020-12-08T00:56:55.420Z]	<dmitriz>	The other way to think about verifiable credential is that it's two parts. It's the record of the action or the claim. And then the proof is your signature.
[2020-12-08T00:57:07.030Z]	<dmitriz>	So it's both.
[2020-12-08T00:57:13.390Z]	<dmitriz>	Are the evidence is this is your signature.
[2020-12-08T00:57:19.570Z]	<kimhd>	Well, I think they're using evidence in the sense of
[2020-12-08T00:57:23.980Z]	<kimhd>	Evidence of like supporting work. 
[2020-12-08T00:57:29.800Z]	<kimhd>	All right.
[2020-12-08T00:57:30.370Z]	<ottonomy>	Right, we have this common concept of a defined achievement or a credential.
[2020-12-08T00:57:35.410Z]	<ottonomy>	That is associated with a particular assessment regime that says specific set of criteria and the evidence in what, in many respects, is called the assertion is about what is the documentation that the recipient has met the various pieces of criteria required by the mind that you can
[2020-12-08T00:58:00.610Z]	<kimhd>	So we're short on time. I think that
[2020-12-08T00:58:04.630Z]	<kimhd>	I think that it would make sense to pull this out into a separate issue.
[2020-12-08T00:58:12.130Z]	<kimhd>	So one, I think we have made progress on the original issue, and I think that can help inform what are those two things to Phil's question about what are the actions that that are that we still have remaining and then keep working through the sort of conceptual clarity.
[2020-12-08T00:58:34.360Z]	<kimhd>	Yeah, I'm not seeing a clear answer right now. I just think we need to iterate more on it in the in the issue.
[2020-12-08T00:58:47.260Z]	<kimhd>	I'm checking if anyone has hands raised. Okay. So I think with that, we can we can end tiny bit early. And so, thank you everyone.
[2020-12-08T00:59:01.900Z]	<Phil-T3>	Thanks, Kim.
[2020-12-08T00:59:04.930Z]	<juan_caballero>	Thanks, all.
[2020-12-08T00:59:06.010Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Thanks. Bye bye.
[2020-12-08T00:59:08.020Z]	<niaz>	Thank you.
[2020-12-08T00:59:23.666Z]	<kimhd> present+ adamjlemmon, dward, JimKelly, Maarten, niaz, javaservlets, jameschartrand, sharon_leu, stuartf, Simone_Ravaioli, Kerri_Lemoie, Jacksón, matt_lisle, Kostas, keith_kowal, juan_caballero, jerry_ma, chriswinc, jkitchens
