Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-09-27/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-09-27/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2022-09-27

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Sep&period_year=2022&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Jack, Harrison Tang, Kimberly Linson, Suneet Bendre, Mike 
  Prorock, Sam Curren, Rebal, Paul Dietrich GS1, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Andrew Whitehead, Markus 
  Sabadello, Sharon Leu, Ashley Viloria, John Kuo, Keith Kowal, 
  Jeff O - HumanOS, Kerri Lemoie, Marty Reed, Gerard Iervolino, 
  Shawn Butterfield, Geun-Hyung, Leo, Orie Steele, Kaliya Young, 
  Tomislav Markovski, Steve Magennis, David I. Lehn, Ted Thibodeau, 
  Nate Otto, Rebecca Busacca, Territorium

<kimberly_wilson_linson> kimberly.linson@randasolutions.com
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Kimberly Linson:  Let me say.
Kimberly Linson:  Recording is on.
Kimberly Linson:  Awesome thank you Harrison.
Kimberly Linson:  All right well welcome everybody will take a 
  few minutes to you know move through our the beginning or 
  housekeeping stuff and then this is going to be a pretty open 
  forum and as I said in my email yesterday you know one of the 
  things we started doing earlier in the year is taking this last 
  Tuesday of the quarter to kind of just regroup and make sure.
Kimberly Linson:  On track with the work items that we want to be 
  on track with that were we have new things that we want to talk 
  about we're talking about them and just give everybody kind of an 
  opportunity for that and then of course with TPAC happening just 
  a couple of weeks ago we want to give an opportunity for us to 
  kind of share some of the takeaways and lessons and learnings 
  from that so that's kind of the theme for today and we'll get 
  through the initial part and then and then we can kind of see 
  where where where.
Kimberly Linson:   We go just a reminder that.
Kimberly Linson:  Is a professional community and so keep in mind 
  the the ethics and professional conduct if you would like to take 
  a look at that specifically the link is in the agenda anybody can 
  participate in these calls and it's very open for that however if 
  you're going to make substantial contributions then we certainly 
  would invite you to become a full member of the ccg with your 
  assigned IP are.
<mprorock> @markus - you are good to transfer that repo
Kimberly Linson:  For those can be found in the agenda we do keep 
  minutes of an an audio recording of everything that's said in the 
  call and that is also the link to that archive is in in the 
  agenda and we will be queuing as Mike mentioned before will be 
  queuing using Q Plus so if you want to get on the Queue have 
  something you want to add Then I then please I invite you to to 
  add yourself to the.
Kimberly Linson:   And that's my job too.
Kimberly Linson:  To moderate that and make sure that we're 
  hearing from everyone so do keep in mind that you know we won't 
  we have a large group and we want to be able to get everyone's 
  input I think that brings me to introductions and reintroductions 
  so if you would like to introduce yourself if you're new to the 
  community or you'd like to reintroduce yourself after being away 
  for a little while and give us a little bit of an update on what 
  you've been doing.
Kimberly Linson:  You to put yourself on the Q now.
Kimberly Linson:  Jack I was hoping that you would introduce 
  yourself.
Kimberly Linson:  Great we're glad you're here thank you anybody 
  else like to introduce themselves or reintroduce themselves.
Kimberly Linson:  Right how about any announcements or reminders.
Kimberly Linson:  Mike go ahead.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah I don't see Kalia on so I will speak possibly 
  a little bit out of turn but I know Clea and some of the iiw 
  folks been running some great sessions with Spruce on the mdl and 
  verifiable credential potentials for interoperability Etc do see 
  the mailing list if you need more info on that but it was 
  definitely good.
Mike Prorock:  A kickoff meeting all that.
Mike Prorock:  So and I know info is floating around all the 
  mailing list on that so feel free to just search for mdl on the 
  mailing list and you'll get a pile of stuff so.
Kimberly Linson:  Great anybody else wanted to jump in with an 
  announcement or minor Marcus.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah Marcus I did comment on the issue of them did 
  resolution just go ahead and transfer that repo and I'll accept 
  it so we're ready to go there and then I might need to add a few 
  files so you'd be on the lookout for a PR after you do that so if 
  so just be on the lookout for that on the final report I am good 
  for that do you mind opening in a new on the community that and 
  making sure that that repo is already titled Community you know 
  like final community.
Mike Prorock:   Draft Etc.
Mike Prorock:  DID resolution to make sure that that rolls 
  through so.
Kimberly Linson:  Great thank you anybody else got something they 
  want to bring to the group.
Kimberly Linson:  Okay let's jump into our main conversation for 
  the day and that is to really have an open conversation about 
  TPAC and work item updates work working group updates so Mike do 
  you mind if I sort of pick on you to start with a tea pack.
Mike Prorock:  Oh sure why not um yeah TPAC was interesting 
  certainly as far as this group goes I think the two biggest items 
  of kind of key relevance.
Mike Prorock:  I can get into that I would say even in kind of 
  the main can open a SI sessions and things like that there was a 
  lot of discussion of verifiable credentials and dids and a lot of 
  interest we certainly saw some folks you know like Intel for 
  example really engaging openly which I thought was great right 
  sign of things to come but in fact there was a panel that I was 
  on specifically related to kind of future web very focused all 
  dids and VCS Manu.
Mike Prorock:   Had a pretty good call out around actual Opera.
Mike Prorock:  Not getting stuffy to operations right an actual 
  public deployments of VCS as well so during one of the main 
  sessions so I think that's a good sense there was a lot of very 
  active but I think productive discussion in both the did and the 
  VC beatings I know Marcus is on he may want to comment 
  specifically on the data items I was following on IRC Chris 
  Abernathy on her team was more engaged on that meeting I know or 
  he was probably.
Mike Prorock:   Pretty engaged in that and for sure several 
  others all to BCC.
Mike Prorock:  As well so that's probably just more than enough 
  of just a blur you know here's my 30 seconds of tpack I think was 
  good I think we see where some challenges are going to come with 
  VCS in particular and I think we've got some natural next steps 
  and potential challenges to work through with dids one of the 
  more interesting items that I thought came out of the did working 
  group discussions at tpack was the notion of maybe focusing.
Mike Prorock:   A lot more testing around things like resolution 
  as.
Mike Prorock:  Specifically focusing on standardizing specific 
  did methods and that was an area that was brought up that I think 
  is worth and you know maybe having some conversation around so I 
  don't know Marcus are you open to being picked on for some 
  commentary around the did working group in particular.
Orie Steele: Did:jwk should be standardized :) ... but maybe at 
  IETF instead of W3C.
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie
Kimberly Linson:  So Ori can I ask you to say a little bit more 
  about your thoughts.
Orie Steele:  Sure I mean I was there there was discussion about 
  standardizing specific did methods if I were to summarize the 
  objections to that I think there was concern that the did methods 
  chosen to be standardized at the w3c would have w3c values sort 
  of embedded in them and that that might not actually be the right 
  sort of signal to send regarding did.
Orie Steele:   It's at.
Orie Steele:  That is that it was pretty clear that if we don't 
  attempt to talk about mandatory to implement did methods we 
  probably would expect to see some objections to the work the next 
  time around and agree with Marcus you know what he said about 
  standardizing did did resolution I think in general folks wanted 
  to see better interoperability testing in the did specification 
  we had tasks for the core data.
Orie Steele:   Model butt.
Orie Steele:  Those tests didn't help us cover interoperability 
  around resolution and dereferencing to the degree that we really 
  needed it in order to be confident when you're verifying 
  something you fully understand how you obtain the key that's 
  verifying it so I think did resolution is the thing that we ought 
  to be focused on I think that focusing on specific did methods is 
  community fracturing attack.
Kimberly Linson:  That's really helpful does anybody else want to 
  add to that or have thoughts about that.
Kimberly Linson:  All right what are some other takeaways from 
  TPAC to we want to keep going my core or move off of tea pack and 
  talk about other stuff.
Kimberly Linson:  I've lost Mike so.
Mike Prorock:  No I'm just sitting here you did yeah apologies ya 
  know I you know I I think you know there were other there were 
  other things that might even be worth diving into especially from 
  verifiable credential side of things I think something that's 
  become very clear.
Mike Prorock:  Especially now that we have some pretty broad 
  usage of VCS both in test environments as well as kind of a big 
  public and in the wild we're seeing different ways of using 
  verifiable credentials right that you know there's large parties 
  using verifiable credentials with more of a private claims kind 
  of approach that because the way I like to think of it anyways 
  where you use at vocab in order to Define what are the core 
  properties of a verifiable.
Mike Prorock:   Shal and what the meanings of those things are.
Mike Prorock:  The actual contents maybe you know pre-assigned 
  separately right through a business Arrangement or something else 
  some of the way we tend to see jwk as used in practice and that 
  definitely is got a lot of wide usage and contrasts though with 
  the way that others in the community might use vocabularies to 
  define semantic meaning for every single you know key value pair 
  and a set of claims right.
Mike Prorock:   And I think it's something.
Mike Prorock:  You know we're at a point where we do need to be 
  thinking about okay how do we make sure the tent is is open as 
  possible and not closed off other use cases just because they 
  might not be the way that we you know you something or end of the 
  you something or whatever else right because it it's one of those 
  things where that's always a danger right if you start to 
  establish and say no this is the way something must be done to a 
  degree for sure that that is the nature of standardization right 
  but but we also do have to be mindful of how are things.
Mike Prorock:   Actually being used in the law.
Mike Prorock:  And I don't know others may or may not have 
  thoughts on that or that you know things that might cause 
  problems for large-scale deployments in other areas I mean I 
  think definitely call on some names of various folks on this call 
  for I wanted to but I know other folks feel strongly about this 
  and I hopefully maybe some folks will cute at talk out that or 
  talk about you know getting into practice with VCS and what's 
  working and what's not would love to hear you know you have.
Mike Prorock:   Thoughts from the broader Community all that.
Kimberly Linson:  Anybody want to add themselves to the queue.
<mprorock> /me glares at orie and shawn
Kimberly Linson:  All right so Jack does this tie in to to what 
  you wanted to talk to us about or is now a good time for you to 
  maybe jump in and share.
Kimberly Linson:  Well I'm happy for you to take some time now to 
  talk with us about what you what you yeah before it.
Mike Prorock:  Yep you're coming through.
<tallted> Is it too late, or may I suggest changing from "W3C 
  Verifiable Conditions" to "W3C Conditional Verifiability", to 
  avoid (further) overloading "VC" (he asked, hoping "CV" is less 
  overloaded, or at least used by a different community)
<orie> bottom example is wrong....Ed25519Siganture2018 uses 
  detached JWS... thats an attached jws in the example.
<mprorock> I wish manu was on this call - this would be worth 
  discussing on data-integrity in the VC WG 
  https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-integrity
<orie> thats a link to stack overflow... not an RFC for 
  multisignature JWS.
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie
<orie> AFAIK, there is no RFC for multiple signature JWS.
<orie> but exciting idea!
Kimberly Linson:  Thanks Jack can I ask you before I turn it over 
  to the queue there's there I've got some folks I'm going to call 
  on in just a second but I'm wondering if you could give me just a 
  really quick like how is this going to be used in the wild like 
  how would somebody use this.
<markus_sabadello> JWS supports multiple signatures. Just not in 
  compact serialization, but thefe are other serializations if JWS.
Kimberly Linson:  Okay thank you I should ask to you that to 
  start Ted.
Orie Steele: Related: 
  https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/932
Kimberly Linson:  All right at Ted let me let you start because I 
  think you had a question at the very beginning about the the name 
  and.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Yeah I'm I'm 
  hoping it's not too late to suggest changing that name from 
  verifiable conditions to conditional verifiability or something 
  like that DC's with v seeds is is not going to work out well.
<mprorock> @or13 rfc7515 "The JWS JSON Serialization represents 
  JWSs as JSON objects and enables multiple signatures and/or MACs 
  to be applied to the same content.  Both share the same 
  cryptographic underpinnings."
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I suggested 
  conditional verifiability.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Obviously 
  just off the top of my head.
Kimberly Linson:  All right and or you've had a lot of comments 
  and in and I'm hoping you will expand on those for us.
Orie Steele:  I'm trying to find the links to all of the issues 
  in the VC data model that are relevant to this there's several 
  issues that have to do with multiplicity of the issuer or the 
  holder or the subject Fields all of which would be relevant to 
  this so I'll try and find them and share them with chat.
Orie Steele:  To some degree I mean essentially there's been 
  discussion about credentials with multiple issuers credentials 
  with multiple subjects and you know it's related to the 
  structures that you're showing here it's also I think related to 
  some of the comments from Sam Smith on a CEC I interpret Your 
  solution to be implementing the VC.
Orie Steele:  Compatible with that standard directly but relying 
  on.
Orie Steele:  Of this sort of conditioning components and tpack 
  you know one of the things that was discussed was maybe we focus 
  on widening the tent for these security formats for the VC core 
  data model I think what you are proposing here fits into that 
  kind of bigger tent opportunity for the securing formats.
Kimberly Linson:  Marcus did you want to share some thoughts.
Orie Steele: Related: 
  https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/762#issuecomment-1218428660
<orie> related? https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/756
<orie> Cool to see that no changes are needed to DID Core.
<orie> A spec for data integrity or vc-jwt would be needed for VC 
  Data Model v2 though... I think.
Kimberly Linson:  Tomislav did you want to add some thoughts.
Tomislav_Markovski: Yes I had a question I'm wondering how does 
  the typo the verification map to the proof that's required in the 
  condition so one key can be used to produce different signature 
  types different proofs is there a way to express which specific 
  is required as part of it.
<orie> Yep... the `type` of the nested verificationMethod
Tomislav_Markovski: Yes it does so for specifically for example 
  if I were to have a Json web key in this which I can use to 
  produce a BLS signature or BLS group signature or maybe a BBS 
  signature does that mean that I would have to Define three 
  specific sweets in order to express that.
Tomislav_Markovski: Right yeah sorry I just when I when I 
  understand I'm communicating that the question correctly a single 
  key can be used for three different proof types How would how 
  would that be expressed.
Kimberly Linson:  Great or are you go ahead.
Orie Steele:  So you should not use a single key for three 
  different proof types you might be able to do that and you might 
  be allowed to express an intention to do that in certain key 
  representations but I don't think you should do that the thing I 
  think that's missing to make this example clear as a jwk example 
  because in the jwk format you can specify the algorithm you're 
  intending to use.
Orie Steele:   Use so just.
Orie Steele:  For example if we're looking at a set of P 256 K 1 
  public key that's a Bitcoin or aetherium public key now you might 
  say the algorithm will Bes 256k that's going to be well 
  understood because that's a registered algorithm type you might 
  say well I want to use that same public key but with snore 
  signatures and then you would put in that different out value 
  there it would be SS 256k or something else just to be clear.
Orie Steele:   Clear there isn't any registered algorithm type 
  for snore signatures over.
Orie Steele:  Exactly 26 K 1 at this time and likewise there is 
  no register algorithm type for PLS maybe s+ signatures in jwk out 
  registry at this time but you can imagine that if those were 
  registered and the key was bound to a specific algorithm that new 
  be very clear how you're supposed to sort of use them I think 
  adding some jwk examples here would be helpful to sort of 
  explain.
Orie Steele:   In that at that idea.
Orie Steele:  The thing to remember is like public key based 58 
  that's Community draft key representation of this point whereas 
  public key jwk relies on an existing RFC that's it.
Tomislav_Markovski: Right so you're seeing that the GW that's 
  what you described is a feature of the JW k key which can express 
  what the underlying signature schemes should be used with it.
Orie Steele:  Yeah and I think it's a best practice when you 
  generate a key to generate it for a single purpose to include 
  that purpose in the key representation it's much as possible JW K 
  supports that by adding The Outfield and the keops parameters to 
  the jvk I would recommend you make use of those.
Tomislav_Markovski: Okay sounds good thanks.
Orie Steele:  It applies to both in the case where you're 
  expressing a key you should express your intended algorithm that 
  that key is meant to be used with you should be explicit 
  regarding the algorithm the key was intended to be used with.
<orie> example,  JWK: 
  https://github.com/OR13/did-jwk/blob/main/src/cli-examples/key.authenticity.json
<orie> note the `alg` and `key_ops`
Kimberly Linson:  I was going to ask if you would as we talked 
  about a little bit ago put this slide deck on the list and I 
  think folks will contribute and give you their opinions on on 
  which one might be the best Avenue there and I think it'll make 
  for a really interesting dialogue and if that's if that's all 
  right with you I think that's great great.
Kimberly Linson:  All right we.
Kimberly Linson:  And I want to make sure we talk about what the 
  working groups have been up to VC edu I know that you have been 
  very busy and you've shared with us a little bit about what's 
  going on but do you want to take just a quick minute maybe carry 
  to kind of give a couple of high-level bullets of what you've 
  been up to the last three months or so.
<tomislav_markovski> Can `alg` take multiple values or does it 
  require separate entries for the same key to express multiple sig 
  schemes?
Kerri Lemoie:  Hey there sure no problem.
<kerri_lemoie> VC-EDU Site: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/
<kerri_lemoie> VC-EDU Charter: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/charter/
Kerri Lemoie:  Probably most of you have heard about the plugfest 
  to you so I'm not going to start there I'll just start briefly 
  with what whereabouts were Community it's focusing on supporting 
  and increasing the adoption of verifiable could have chosen 
  education and employment put a bunch of links in the chat for you 
  this is our website where we put information about what's going 
  on in b.c. edu this next link is our Charter and then.
Kerri Lemoie:   I'll do first tell you I went into work items 
  that we have we have two main work.
<kerri_lemoie> VC-EDU Use Cases: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed-use-cases/
Kerri Lemoie:  And Beyond everything else going on in our group 
  one is to develop a use cases document and another one is to 
  produce a model recommendation we're currently working on the 
  model recommendation based on the use cases in this document and 
  this document is published but also I require some editing still 
  so we're finishing up some editing and then we're going to send 
  it out to the community to make any sort of further edits and 
  suggestions I'm in the GitHub repo but we.
Kerri Lemoie:   Recently just published it.
Kerri Lemoie:  Mark into this document.
<kerri_lemoie> Plugfest 2 site: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/plugfest-2-2022/
Kerri Lemoie:  So what we've another big initiative that we've 
  been sort of co-working on or collaborating with on its with the 
  jobs for the future which is jmf which is the plugfest to and 
  this is the website for that.
Kerri Lemoie:  Find all the information there we are well into 
  this now we have over 40 participants and what they're working on 
  plugfest to do plugfest one was about displaying a VC in a 
  credential we've been following the open badges 3.0 specification 
  which recently has aligned with PCS and then plugfest to is about 
  protocols it's about connecting issuers to wallets and we are 
  using the three primary protocols.
Kerri Lemoie:   API oid.
Kerri Lemoie:  See and did come and they'll be a demo event on 
  November 14th at the IW the computer of I was Museum computer 
  history that what it is Kimberly the day before I had W on 
  November 14th.
<kerri_lemoie> Open Badges 3.0 Candidate Release: 
  https://imsglobal.github.io/openbadges-specification/ob_v3p0.html
Kerri Lemoie:  And then also just give you a link to the open 
  badges 3.0 candidate release there is a corresponding this is a 
  when edtech org release previously they were called IMS Global 
  I'm there is a corresponding data model called CLR I don't have a 
  link to see lrv to maybe somebody on the call has that and these 
  are shared data models and they are aligning have allied with 
  verifiable credentials.
Kerri Lemoie:  And then lastly.
<marty_reed> V2 is not candidate final public as of yet
<marty_reed> for CLR
Kerri Lemoie:  I really interesting and Rich call topics so we 
  did a call on dids V1 once the recommendation past we talked 
  about which is our why it matters for Education and Training and 
  achievement credentials we also did an introduction to the get 
  coin passport which is an interesting bridge between you know web 
  3 and also VC's we had a call about soulbound tokens which is 
  sort of a discussion about you know what is this mean between 
  VCS.
Kerri Lemoie:   And a Nifty is and what does this mean in 
  education and.
Kerri Lemoie:  Excellent call on eme BSI which is a European 
  model for issue Registries so and all of these links to these 
  meetings can be usually have the minutes published on the the vcg 
  site and then l so you can join our mailing list and find more 
  information there.
Kerri Lemoie:  Cat but I wanted to leave room for other people.
<orie>	sbts -- > NT-NFTs
<nate_otto_(he/him)> I don't think 1EdTech has quite yet 
  published a Comprehensive Learner Record 2.0 (CLR) document in 
  parallel to the OB 3.0 work yet (it's on a slightly different 
  less-public track, but it will be published as a "candidate final 
  public" soon after a 1EdTech internal review phase that is taking 
  a few weeks longer than originally hoped.
<kerri_lemoie> Mailing list archive: 
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/
Kimberly Linson:  No thanks Carrie that was that was great and 
  and I'm so glad you mentioned all of the great great topics 
  you've had recently I know I get so much out of everyone I attend 
  so if you aren't a regular attender of BCE to you I would 
  definitely Echo you know checking out the minutes of those calls 
  does anybody have any questions for VC edu or comments they want 
  to make please put yourself on the queue.
<kerri_lemoie> Thanks @nate
Kimberly Linson:  Okay well let's move to do I have somebody who 
  wants to give us an update on V Capi working group.
<kerri_lemoie> Thanks @marty
Kimberly Linson:  I don't think Mike is on the call anymore for 
  me to put on the spot so I don't know who to put on the spot to 
  ask about be Capi so somebody please.
Kimberly Linson:   Help me out.
Kerri Lemoie:  I think many of the participants are at reboot 
  this week and really.
Orie Steele:  I can give an update if Mike isn't here.
Kimberly Linson:  Yeah all right well we will have to we will 
  have to live without an update on on BC API and maybe we've got 
  somebody from traceability yeah no he had to he had to drop off 
  thanks or.
Orie Steele: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Orie Steele:  So I'm yeah there's been a lot of activity so I'll 
  just pull up the latest history quick right essentially we've 
  continued to emerge pull requests around vocabulary and 
  credential shapes for supply chain credentials so if you're 
  looking at the latest poll requests in the traceability 
  vocabulary you'll see there's some.
Orie Steele:  Around you know CT pack credential subject type of 
  bugs on 3461 and packing lists if that's if that's not exciting I 
  don't know what is these have to do with the shapes of verifiable 
  credentials that meet compliance requirements for critical trade 
  data associated with cross-border shipments so the vocabulary 
  item in the traceability calls is focused on defining those book 
  A book.
Orie Steele:   Cab you Larry terms and explaining the different 
  credentials.
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Orie Steele:  Sir to support cross-border trade scenarios and 
  then the interoperability repository and see there's a lot of 
  activity on that one as well this one has to do with the apis 
  that we use to test conformance around these vocabulary 
  credential types so what we do there is we have a couple 
  companies that have stood up interoperable infrastructure and 
  every night.
Orie Steele: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
Orie Steele:  He is run and our interoperability test report is 
  generated here's a quick link to that interoperability test 
  report and you can see you know some of us you know sometimes we 
  have good days sometimes we have bad days interoperability is a 
  moving Target but we measure it daily and if you're interested in 
  passing these interoperability test there's instructions in the 
  traceability interoperability repo for how to get started.
Orie Steele:   David and essentially you.
Orie Steele:  Web server that implements these open apis and you 
  register and then you show up in the interoperability report 
  happy to answer any questions you might have about it.
Kimberly Linson:  Great thanks anyone want to put themselves on 
  the Queue with a question.
Kimberly Linson:  All right are there any other work items or 
  things that have been going on in the ccg that we want to talk 
  about is a community right now.
Kimberly Linson:  All right well I'm going to give you back a 
  couple of minutes but white before I do that Harrison do you mind 
  sharing with everybody what we have coming next week.
Harrison_Tang: Yes so next week we invited Nick Lambert the CEO 
  of talk to talk about the doc search and the web 3id they are 
  going to demo the sign with a theory and functionalities and we 
  are preparing a couple questions for him to answer so that you 
  guys have any questions please come prepare and.
Harrison_Tang:  a week after that we're going to.
Harrison_Tang: Tom's from satp to kind of talk about their work 
  there and then after that we're going to have someone from 
  ceramic to talk about ceramic Network and I'm going to we're 
  actually kind of clean up the w3c calendars let me put it in the 
  chat here and then we're going to put these schedule events in 
  the vents so that when people have.
Harrison_Tang:  you know people can.
Harrison_Tang: See what's coming in advance.
https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/credentials/calendar
<kerri_lemoie> Thanks!
Kimberly Linson:  Great thanks Harrison alright everybody thank 
  you so much for joining us today and look forward to seeing you 
  again next week have a great week everyone.
