Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-10-11-vcapi/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-10-11-vcapi/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC API Task Force Transcript for 2022-10-11

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Oct/0042.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions, Relevant Community Updates
  2. Pull Requests
  3. Publication of VC API FCGR for VCWG
  4. Response body for POST /credentials/status
  5. Internal vs. External API language
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Manu Sporny, Stuart Freeman, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Logan Porter, 
  Dmitri Zagidulin, Patrick (IDLab), Dave Longley, John Kuo, Joe 
  Andrieu, James Chartrand, Brian Richter

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Manu Sporny:  All right welcome everyone to the October 11th 2020 
  to verify verifiable credentials API call our agenda is here go 
  ahead and share my screen might as well.
Manu Sporny:  Today on the agenda is just our regular 
  introductions agenda review introductions relevant Community 
  updates and we have a lot of issues here I wanted to add at least 
  two things on it one of them is just a review of the VC API 
  snapshot that we had agreed to publish last week just make sure 
  that we have agreement on.
Manu Sporny:   On that since we have.
Manu Sporny:  A different set of people on the call this week a 
  conversation about VC API exchange Dimitri I don't know if you 
  are interested in having that discussion today or next week but 
  we can basically.
Manu Sporny:   Put it put a.
Manu Sporny:  Time on the agenda for that if you want to say 
  anything about that and then the rest of the time is basically 
  issue processing watch the response body for posting to 
  credential status be what should we do about the internal versus 
  external Epi language should we do a test for an issue with the 
  default issue or provided this issue we might be able to close 
  and then any other issues as time permits.
Manu Sporny:  Are there any other changes or updates to the 
  agenda anything else we want to discuss today.

Topic: Introductions, Relevant Community Updates

Manu Sporny:  Okay if there are no other changes let's go ahead 
  and jump into the first topic which is introductions and relevant 
  Community updates is there anyone new on the call today that 
  would like to introduce themselves anyone want to reintroduce 
  themselves because of a change in position or what you're working 
  on.
Manu Sporny:  Okay if not any relevant Community updates anything 
  happening that the group should know about I can start off with 
  the data Integrity a stuff is moving forward we're going to do a 
  first public working draft for the data Integrity work probably 
  in the next month.
Manu Sporny:  There is a new EDSA 2022 crypto Suite which is just 
  a minor variation on the the 2021 so we expect that stuff might 
  start impacting this group if we decide to change like some of 
  the default crypto Suites that are used for some of the tests 
  actually let me let me rephrase that.
Manu Sporny:   If your parent.
<dmitri_zagidulin> link to the crypto suite?
Manu Sporny:  Have sweets today you'll continue to pass the test 
  Suites there will just be new test Suites for the new crypto 
  sweets Dimitri this is the EDSA one EDSA 2022 let me know where 
  is it so let me put in a link to the updated data Integrity spec.
<manu_sporny> New data integrity spec: 
  https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-integrity/
Manu Sporny:  So a lot of a lot of the Core Concepts are getting 
  walk down here and then there is the need to add the website here 
  let me try what is it Edie.
Manu Sporny:  This one URL EDSA 2022.
<manu_sporny> New 'eddsa-2022' cryptosuite test suite: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/di-eddsa-2022-test-suite/
Manu Sporny:  About the accident yes that's right okay so here's 
  the link new meat EDSA 2022 Crisco sweet test Suite this one this 
  test Suite here it's just us in it right now but it's effectively 
  almost the exact same thing as the Ed to 5519 signature 2021 
  there but they're byte for byte compatible on the signature.
Manu Sporny:   It's just you specify.
Manu Sporny:  Type and you specify a crypto sweet value so so the 
  type has to be data Integrity proof in the crypto sweet value 
  must be EDSA 2022 other than that it's the exact same thing as 
  the as this crypto sweet the the Ed to 5519 signature 2021 and 
  again like nobody needs to implement it.
Manu Sporny:   Anytime soon it's just a demonstration.
Manu Sporny:  The new data Integrity spec is implementable as is 
  there is a just so folks have it let me see data integrity.
Manu Sporny:  Let's see there it actually it's BC data.
Manu Sporny:  PC data model this is also somewhat important in 
  that there is this new data Integrity proof thing so I'll go 
  ahead and link to hear this shit.
<manu_sporny> Discussion about how DI works: 
  https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/943#issue-1402363790
Manu Sporny:  There's a discussion on streamlining the data 
  Integrity stuff and so anyway there's a there's a new crypto 
  sweet conformance test Suite explanation of how it works in an 
  implementation to just demonstrate that all this work so so 
  anyway this this stuff's going you know happening in the 
  verifiable credentials working group the data Integrity spec 
  seems to be settling down which means that we're going to start 
  specifying a bunch of new crypto sweets like he's.
Manu Sporny:  GSA EDSA and BBs.
Manu Sporny:  We're going to have test Suites that are driven by 
  the BC API to test the functionality and all these specifications 
  so it's just a heads up for people more than likely you're not 
  going to have to think about doing implementations for you know 
  three to six months maybe even nine months from now but that's of 
  importance in going on right now.
Manu Sporny:   I think that's it for that.
Manu Sporny:  Of update the other thing that's going on right now 
  is the jmf plugfest is going on in there's stuff happening with 
  VC API there specifically their number of issuers using the issue 
  endpoint issue verifiable credentials and then there's some work 
  that's going on in the VC API Exchange.
Manu Sporny:  A tree I don't know if your audio is working now 
  and you can say something about that or if you're still on mute.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  What was it what was the question again this 
  was.
Manu Sporny:  So earlier today in the jff plugfest you said that 
  you wanted to kind of talk about something with the VC API Group 
  around the exchange stuff do you want to do that today or do you 
  want to do that some of the point.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Right so the question that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So let's say at another call I'm not sure I 
  have exact question formulated.
Manu Sporny:  Okay alright that's fine.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  We wait having said that I see James is on on 
  the call James did we have anything to ask to the VC API Group.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  From our previous conversation about exchange 
  endpoint and Nation put.
Manu Sporny:  No audio from you James if you're saying anything.
Manu Sporny:  You could type it in if your audio is not working 
  for some reason.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Okay I think I'm not sure if James is 
  reconnecting anyways Mana thank you for for giving us a chance to 
  ask the question.
Manu Sporny:  Okay alright we can we can cover it at some other 
  point so all that to say that they're they're they're definitely 
  usages of e c API number of companies using the C API to do 
  issuance in the jmf plugfest in there are a few that are looking 
  at using the exchanges stuff to do full-blown issuing so.
Manu Sporny:  Due to do effectively.
Manu Sporny:  Station and then do an issuance so we may want to 
  talk about that prioritize talking about that if any questions 
  come up around that later on okay any other anything else 
  happening in the ecosystem that we should talk about anything 
  else impacting VC API.

Topic: Pull Requests

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pulls
<james_chartrand> Sorry, connection troubles. Yes, best for 
  another call dmitri.
Manu Sporny:  All right if not we can jump into our first agenda 
  topic and that is 0 actually before we do that almost forgot all 
  requests we have a couple of PRS interestingly enough from people 
  that don't attend these calls they're finding things in the spec 
  spec and fixing them which is good many of them are just obvious 
  editorial issues.
Manu Sporny:   There's a PR in.
Manu Sporny:  Rename apt coordinator which is a decision we made 
  a long time ago and so that PR is in we still have these PRS 
  hanging out from the days where we were just wrapped around the 
  axle talking about authorization my suggestion is that we close 
  both of these PRS they've just been hanging out literally for 
  over a year at this point in.
Manu Sporny:   And it doesn't look like.
Manu Sporny:  To be able to be merged in so would there be any 
  objections for us closing PRS these PR is that are over a year 
  old.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: +1 To closing
Patrick_(IDLab): How relevant today I'm not familiar with these P 
  ever.
Manu Sporny:  They're not relevant anymore I mean this this was I 
  think it was it was a big fight over like are we going to Define 
  authorization to include you know everything like good nap or 
  oauth2 or nothing or in so there was a big fight over which ones 
  we would mandate and they just didn't go anywhere and then the 
  thing on authorization delegation was a you know we are going to.
Manu Sporny:   Wow delegated on.
Manu Sporny:  But even that you know came with like people saying 
  we have to Define exactly how we do it and so.
Manu Sporny:  My suggestion is there not.
Manu Sporny:  They're not relevant to the current discussion.
Manu Sporny:  Did that answer your question Patrick.
Patrick_(IDLab): But yeah sure because I remember you were 
  talking about the what to would see weeks ago that seemed to be 
  the decided the authorization mechanism.
Manu Sporny:  At least that yeah we're basically that's what 
  everyone has a lamented and so like this spec would be you know a 
  work of fiction if it didn't actually talk about what the 
  implementers have implemented yeah yeah and that was a totally 
  separate thing that's a different PR that hasn't been raised yet 
  but it will be okay well then we can close both of these I'll do 
  that after citing the discussion around them.
Manu Sporny:  Not much else in the way of PRS the other thing I 
  wanted to raise really quickly is publication publication of my 
  own company will see GR.

Topic: Publication of VC API FCGR for VCWG

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/304
Manu Sporny:  API for basically G so publication of verifiable 
  credential API final community group report for verifiable 
  credential working group we had raised an issue a while ago 
  around snapshotting the VC H or verifier API for reccwg during 
  last week's call which interestingly enough had a very different 
  set of people.
Manu Sporny:   Ending same time.
Manu Sporny:  We asked if we could go ahead and publish the note 
  with the fault with the caveats that have been discussed in here 
  and there were no objections for it so let me ask again since we 
  have a different set of people on the call this week let me try 
  and get this little larger so people can see the proposal is to 
  basically publish.
Manu Sporny:   The VC API.
Manu Sporny:  In a group report that covers generating a VC 
  generating a verifiable presentation verifying both and checking 
  the status it specifically does not include the exchanges stuff 
  is that was viewed as too controversial to put in would there be 
  any objections to doing that on the call today Patrick you're on 
  the cube go ahead please.
Patrick_(IDLab): Forget if I was that bid last week but so it 
  says Snapchat VC issuer verifier as holder been left out 
  deliberately or it includes the holder as well it's just not.
Manu Sporny:  No we didn't use the term holder because certainly 
  like a transmute wanted the ability to create presentations and P 
  you could call that the holder API so instead of instead of 
  calling out the roles we're going to include all three roles but 
  cut out the parts around exchanges.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah I think it makes sense to include 
  everything as long.
Patrick_(IDLab): So you just / like credentials and presentations 
  and.
Patrick_(IDLab): Because the VC API is suspect there's like the 
  issuer verify your holder then which are three they each have 
  their own sort of subsections of the.
Patrick_(IDLab): The the paths that are available in my head that 
  I don't know if it was decided to do it like this or if it's just 
  the way that it came out but there should be one Speck with all 
  the paths and.
Patrick_(IDLab): The solution implements the ones that it 
  supports.
Manu Sporny:  We may be miscommunicating a bit so the current 
  spec has issuing verifying and presenting right and so we moved 
  away from doing it by roll to doing it by a kind of action right 
  in the only part that people are disagreeing with is this 
  exchanges sections three four six seven and eight like these 
  three are the things that people are like do not include those.
Patrick_(IDLab): Okay so presenting would be the holder 
  basically.
Manu Sporny:  Yes but but generating a presentation not 
  presenting.
Manu Sporny:  We would get objections if we put presentation in 
  there that doesn't mean we can't do it later but for this round 
  we've gotten at least multiple people saying that they would 
  object to it if we included the exchanges stuff now to be clear 
  we can continue to work on exchanges in this group they just 
  don't want to put exchanges in front of the verifiable 
  credentials working group yet.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah I'm not too sure exactly what the exchange 
  is about so the exchange as I understand it it's got to do with 
  anything that.
Patrick_(IDLab): Transfers information from one to the other.
Manu Sporny:  No it's it is so in the spec I can understand why 
  that's the general definition of exchange but in the spec it 
  means something very specific it means these sets of API 
  endpoints the / exchanges in points.
Manu Sporny:  If that makes sense so you see like this thing.
Manu Sporny:  Thing that starts with / exchanges that's the thing 
  that people said they'd object-- to if we tried to include it in 
  the thing that we sent to the VC w g.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah so the suggestion was like we would not 
  include 3463 48 but would include everything else which is 
  issuing a credential arguably get credentials getting an updating 
  status verifying driving proving exchange Discovery we would 
  probably take out and then.
Manu Sporny:  Continue exchange and exchange examples.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so so let me let me just make sure and ask 
  again are there any objections to prepping that to go to the be 
  cwg.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Up do you want to process the queue manager 
  or.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It's meanest I can.
Manu Sporny:  Oh yeah I'm sorry and what's not looking at it go 
  ahead moment.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So I had a question about how this how does 
  this actually work when how does work occur if this is accepted 
  in the VC working group do not two separate yeah I think about 
  this before but I'm blanking.
Manu Sporny:  Yes no I don't think that we were like we will 
  figure it out but I don't think anything was proposed so let me 
  try and proposed put myself on the cube something go ahead Joe.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah I think I think we still need to annotate the 
  endpoints as to what component there in I think if we don't do 
  that first I think we're going to be causing more confusion than 
  enlightenment.
Joe Andrieu:  And I hope you know flag me for it and I'm happy to 
  engage with you to help iterate that.
<manu_sporny> joe mah
Manu Sporny:  Okay point taken and I will try to put in a PR to 
  do that Joe because we have agreement okay that's great yeah and 
  we have agreement to do that already like in an issue so that 
  should just be a mechanical thing that we can work through rather 
  than something the group has to sign off on yep good good point 
  so I'm going to answer your question or attempt to answer your 
  question.
Manu Sporny:  Well I think we've never had to do this before that 
  I can think of usually when you hand a document over to a group 
  you just hand it over and it just totally goes over to them and 
  in the community group stops working on it and the working group 
  takes it over right in this case it's a little different where we 
  want to continue refining the document but we also want to 
  publish a snapshot there are two ways to do that one of them is 
  to just cut a release and just make that the snapshot and make 
  that the know.
Manu Sporny:  I don't that's going to it I tried to figure out a 
  month bunch of ways to do that that's not disruptive and I can't 
  think of an easy way to do that other than just them point to the 
  ccg and say we're going to snapshot you know that specific 
  document that looks like a note in the VC w g so 11 approach here 
  is just create a static copy just the document itself with 
  nothing else in publish it the other thing that we can do.
Manu Sporny:   Do is we can.
Manu Sporny:  One of two things either the VC WG would Fork our 
  repo the thing that we're working on here and then they would 
  create a branch which would then publish a note so that's one 
  thing that could be done we're basically this group continues to 
  retain ownership over the repository and continues to work on it 
  I expect members of the VC.
Manu Sporny:   Ewg to object to that.
Manu Sporny:  Like they're probably going to say if we are 
  publishing a note we need to be in control of the source where 
  the note comes from and the repository and it needs to be clear 
  that yada yada yada right so that's one argument against that the 
  other thing that we can do is we can transfer our repository over 
  to the verifiable credentials working group so it will be in 
  there and then we can re for Kit meaning that the note will be.
Manu Sporny:   Wished from VC w.
Manu Sporny:  And they'll have ownership over the repo and all 
  that kind of stuff but we will have a fork that we work on that 
  does you know newer and better and it just does new things right 
  and then every now and then if the VC w g wants to publish a new 
  note or new iteration of it they can pull the changes from us 
  into their repository in that should continue to work so.
Manu Sporny:   My suggestion is we do that thing.
Manu Sporny:  We say we give our repository over to the 
  verifiable credentials working group we for Kit we continue to do 
  our work here and then they will pull in new versions of it as 
  things as things occur so let me stop there Mahmood you're on the 
  Queue go ahead.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  That makes a ton of sense the last thing you 
  said which is they take ownership Leaf work that resonates quite 
  a bit with me the question that I have is we expect them to do 
  changes right I mean that's the point of giving them the note in 
  the first place that they would weigh in and provide some sort of 
  input and make some sort of adjustments in some way right how 
  does this normally I mean because this is I was going to say it 
  is normal.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  But I think you just said this hasn't 
  happened before to your knowledge.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  It basically how do you envision we 
  reconcile differences would it be a case of their note is 
  authoritative note and everything we do is an extension to it so 
  any changes they implement we would have to implement to or where 
  are we okay with them diverging in some way does that sorry if my 
  question was not Salient but geometer phrase or is.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah no I mean oh it makes perfect sense so the 
  question is if they make changes what do we do right meaning the 
  as the as a community group what do we do if they make changes so 
  my suggestion is that you know whoever is going to edit this 
  document and I'm raising my hand I'm totally happy to you know 
  try and make sure that things stay the same between the ccwg in 
  this group we should be let me let me.
Manu Sporny:   Try and figure out a way.
<mahmoud> /s/ geometer phase/ happy to rephrase/
Manu Sporny:  Correctly we should keep them in sync right because 
  if the verifiable credentials working group is saying you're 
  doing something then we do have a say because a number of us are 
  in that group as well we have a say over what what happens I 
  think notes are different right so so this thing is not a quote 
  unquote authoritative anything a note is just like a here's a 
  bunch of ideas we were thinking about and we're just publishing.
Manu Sporny:   Get out there and notes are kind of like 
  snapshots.
Manu Sporny:  Right and so and Publishing a note is like 
  publishing a snapshot of current thinking at that point of time 
  at that point in time the note the note in the verifiable 
  credentials working group can actually point to our work as the 
  editors draft so people would go and look at the note as 
  published by the verifiable credentials working group but if they 
  wanted to see the latest copy of it they would be redirected over 
  to the credentials community group VC API Group us right so I 
  think.
Manu Sporny:   There's a way.
Manu Sporny:  There's a way to keep everything in sync and 
  aligned no problem and if it looks like things are going to 
  diverge greatly than we can have a discussion about that at that 
  point but they will be us a number of us in that group that will 
  probably object-- very strenuously for there being any kind of 
  Divergence right because like what's the upside so in practice I 
  don't expect it to be a problem but you know we should all be 
  very much aware that.
Manu Sporny:   At this is a not you.
Manu Sporny:  This happen did that help my mood.
Manu Sporny:  So I mean I think you know if we will just try it 
  and if it blows up in our face then we can figure out a way to 
  you know some other way to work but I'm pretty I'm pretty 
  confident that this mode of operation should be okay because I 
  don't think we're expecting we're going to prompt we're going to 
  tell the verifiable credential working group like hey this 
  stuff's actively being worked on every single week in the ccg v 
  CW G is just taking a snapshot you know and agreed to snap.
Manu Sporny:   A lot of that work and work will continue in the 
  ccg so at no point.
Manu Sporny:  Did somebody say.
Manu Sporny:  Like oh now the works going to happen in the be cwg 
  go ahead and log Logan.
Logan Porter:  I am a missed it in a bit just so the VC wa would 
  be or Thera to over the note and the VCI working group would 
  still be authority over the VC API is that right and they just 
  okay to do it.
Manu Sporny:  He kind of let me try and re-explain it after 
  Dimitri guys go ahead.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I think my question was can you can you 
  explain again why the VC working group wants a snapshot 
  especially after the emphasis that the that it's data model and 
  that the API is not a speck.
Manu Sporny:  Tree there is an entry in the charter saying that 
  we're going to publish some kind of API as a note.
Manu Sporny:  So that's the let me yeah the ccwg charter I don't 
  know if I can let me let me try and find that while other people 
  go ahead Logan.
Logan Porter:  I'm in the system would publish like guidance on 
  API it's rather than an API itself I might be wrong.
Manu Sporny:  They're so if we look at the charter let me see 
  what's the this latest one yes so in the charter.
Manu Sporny:  We have a section on one or more HTTP protocol 
  definitions for verifiable credential exchange that is the VC API 
  as a another deliverable that we can publish in there are 
  multiple people saying that they want to they want to work 
  towards publishing that thing.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Patrick let me try and answer Logan 
  Logan's question so the the you asked you know is the note of 
  Thor is the VC WG authoritative on the note and are we at or 
  tentative on the API they're the same document so I think the 
  answer to that is both yes and no there is.
Manu Sporny:   Only one document that we're talking.
Manu Sporny:  And that's this document.
Manu Sporny:  What the VC WG can do is they can take a snapshot 
  and publish this document so they can publish a snapshot of this 
  document while we the VC API in to be clear this is a community 
  group Logan not a working group so we're not an official we're 
  not an official working group we are a community group meaning 
  that the work that we're doing here we do in is pre standards 
  work it is not a part of an officially ratified working group at 
  the w3c that has.
Manu Sporny:  Have a different standing right so we're kind of 
  like the incubation.
Manu Sporny:  Group in we are we want the working group to take a 
  snapshot of this document if that makes sense so there's only one 
  document it's just the V CW G is going to publish a snapshot of 
  it effectively did that answer your first question.
Logan Porter:  Yeah yeah I think so so so this community group 
  would keep be the one that's still working on the VC API document 
  and the VC working group would just take pick up a copy copy it 
  and what put it in no not necessarily in that way but they're 
  like take a static version and publish it as a note in the PC.
Manu Sporny:  That's correct yes.
Logan Porter:  And this group would stay or authoritative over 
  this document.
Manu Sporny:  That's right yeah we'd continue to work on it in 
  here.
Logan Porter:  Yeah it's efficient thanks.
Manu Sporny:  Okay no problem Patrick you had a question.
Patrick_(IDLab): Two things quickly first of all if you could 
  share that link with the charger like to have a link I will be in 
  this.
<manu_sporny> 2022 VCWG Charter: 
  https://www.w3.org/2022/06/verifiable-credentials-wg-charter.html
Patrick_(IDLab): And my second question was like so historically 
  the from what I understand there used to be some sort of this API 
  part of the.
Patrick_(IDLab): And so community group and then it got rejected 
  is that what I understood.
Patrick_(IDLab): Sorry if I maybe is the wrong term but because I 
  remember the it was a very formal credential API test Suites that 
  was part of the w3c GitHub repo and it's sort of got moved to 
  this credential community group.
Manu Sporny:  I don't remember that happening the the VC test 
  Suite the VC API test Suite was has always been in the CG it's 
  never been promoted to into the working group.
Patrick_(IDLab): Okay so once you will publish this note after 
  this there's going to be like periodic updates made or how it's 
  going to go from then on that's going to be.
Manu Sporny:  Up to us in the VC w g to decide so if we feel like 
  we want to publish an update every month we could do it if we 
  wanted the updates to happen every week or every day we could 
  agree to that every quarter it's up to us and the ccwg to 
  determine at what rate we publish new.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah all options are available to us and we'll just 
  have to talk about that in the VC w g and then we'll of course 
  communicate that back to this group and so on so forth so yeah 
  the frequencies to be determined I guess is what I'm trying to 
  say.
Manu Sporny:  Alright okay I'm not hearing any objections to 
  creating a snapshot with the things that we just discussed in 
  there.
Manu Sporny:  This again on the 2022 1011 with a different.
Manu Sporny:  Additional items discussed or by transferring the 
  repository to V CW G but and then for kicking it here to continue 
  working you working on the BC API here.
Manu Sporny:  The ccg you're working on the BC API it's to the 
  notes will be published on a periodic basis depending on.
Manu Sporny:  Um agreements between you see GG and 60g that's 
  that for that item anything else on this topic before we move on.
Manu Sporny:  All right next up.
Manu Sporny:  Is issue 141.

Topic: Response body for POST /credentials/status

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/141
Manu Sporny:  So 141 is about is Ori asking the question what 
  should be the response body for posting to credential status.
Manu Sporny:  So this was a time where we felt revocation was 
  poorly understood now there's a desire to have a credential 
  status mechanism here so the question is what when you post a 
  status update to the endpoint what should the return value be.
Manu Sporny:   Let me stop and.
Manu Sporny:  Thoughts on that go ahead Dave.
Dave Longley:  So in our implementation today I'm just I'll just 
  speak to that if there was an error that occurred we return a for 
  HTTP status code with 4X or 5x X depending on client or server 
  and if it's successful we just return back a 200 and I don't 
  think we send any response body today and that's just saying 
  we've accepted whatever status thing you've requested I think it 
  would be possible for our.
Manu Sporny:  Sorry sorry oh that's good the transcriber got you 
  and what was the or the return values sorry I missed.
Dave Longley:  There are no return values right now it's just a 
  status code with an empty body for 200 and then for errors well I 
  guess their return values for errors some going to Json error 
  format similar to what we do for any of the other apis.
Dave Longley:  And I was saying that our implementation I think 
  at least for status list 2021 could return back the updated 
  credential but it might be advantageous to not have to do that it 
  might be that people want to have implementations that will 
  update that in in the in a background process or something like 
  that so it doesn't have to be done immediately in the response so 
  I think we would want.
Dave Longley:  To hear whether or not people thought the clients 
  needed to have that updated value or you know what whether or not 
  that was in the necessary and it wasn't necessary maybe we just 
  don't have a response value for that trying to think if there was 
  anything else I had on that subject but I guess not for now.
<brian_richter> just wanted to suggest 202 accepted if response 
  body is blank but really shouldn't matter
<dmitri_zagidulin> oh, I remember what James and I wanted to ask! 
  about Challenge management
Manu Sporny:  All right thanks Dave Bryan go ahead.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so so.
Brian Richter:  I just wanted to mention 20 to accept it if 
  there's no response body might be the correct obviously.
Manu Sporny:  Sorry go ahead Brian.
Brian Richter:  I just think really matter too much sorry I 
  didn't mean to be mean to be pedantic.
Manu Sporny:  Okay well it's so what about the general does 
  anyone believe that we should be returning anything in the body.
Manu Sporny:  Or is a status code enough like an HTTP status code 
  enough.
Brian Richter: +1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  If it's a positive or negative it would be 
  200 or 400 I mean I would say if it's a negative it should 
  include the error if possible but that's the only thing I would 
  add.
Dave Longley:  Yep plus one for me as well.
Manu Sporny:  Okay Brian's doing a plus one okay Dave's plus one 
  okay so so the pull request should update the post credentials 
  status in point such that positive modification provides pay 200.
Manu Sporny:   Status code.
Manu Sporny:  And a failure returns a 400 with well I think it's 
  go ahead Dave.
Manu Sporny:  Sorry what was that to what for content.
Dave Longley:  Yeah failure could be a 4X x or a 5 x X depending 
  on whether it's client or server error and the other thing we 
  could to pay it is whether we want to send a 2004 no content 
  status message since we're not sending a body that would be the 
  more pedantic thing to do 204 no content status code.
Manu Sporny:  Code Brian you were suggesting 202.
Brian Richter:  Yeah really either I think but like honestly 200 
  is probably fine as well.
Brian Richter:  Khamenei obviously so.
Manu Sporny:  Okay we need to make a call here cuz we need to 
  write spec text so what do we want 200 or to hope for.
Dave Longley:  So the difference in between 2002 and 2004 so 2 of 
  2 means that your request has been accepted and there might be 
  additional processing and you might need to check back later to 
  afford just says success but I don't have any response for you so 
  I would.
Dave Longley:   I would say.
Dave Longley:  We could make it so you can send either one of 
  these but I don't know that we need to signal that your request 
  has been accepted that there might be additional processing 
  that's really an implementation detail but maybe the spec could 
  say you return a to XX Response Code either this one or that one 
  depending on weather.
Dave Longley:   Is the next.
Dave Longley:  Request to check the status would be up-to-date or 
  not but all of that seems really hard to for people to predict 
  and eventually consistent systems and so on so I my personal 
  feeling is that we should just do 2004 and have people expect 
  that these are partitioned a synchronous systems anyway.
Brian Richter: +1 204
Manu Sporny:  Okay thoughts Brian.
Brian Richter:  Yeah I think I agree with that like there might 
  be some some processing required for some.
Brian Richter:  And potential status type but I think 2.0 content 
  makes the most sense really.
Manu Sporny:  Okay alright so we're going to say the pull request 
  should update post credential status in points such that the 
  positive data positive modification provides a.
Manu Sporny:  204 No content status code and a failure returns of 
  4X x or 5x X should we just say to xx and say any one of these is 
  okay.
Manu Sporny:  Do we have to.
Manu Sporny:  I don't know.
Dave Longley:  I would be comfortable with just saying to XX for 
  now and a lot of clients can just look for the two and not care 
  about the content.
Patrick_(IDLab): I agree and I believe that it can be reviewed 
  later at there's more.
Manu Sporny:  Okay um I don't know if the if OAS allows you to.
Manu Sporny:  I think you have to specify each one like very 
  clearly but I can I'll look at I look at it I mean at the here's 
  the worst case the worst case is we have multiple 200 codes and 
  multiple 400 codes in multiple 500 codes and we let people pick 
  among any one of them.
Dave Longley:  That's how most hdb apis kind of work today 
  anyway.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so this one is ready for PR are there any 
  objections to this kind of pull requests being raised.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so let's do that and then labels is PR.
Manu Sporny:  And we should remove the revocation should be 
  removed thing since I think we're past that at this point.

Topic: Internal vs. External API language

Manu Sporny:  Okay that's that item next up is this topic of 
  internal versus external API language quite a while ago we had 
  let me put the link in here.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/282
Manu Sporny:  So quite a while ago we had thought about this API 
  as a is this an internal call or is this an external call in it 
  it's so like for example issuing or verifying were quote unquote 
  internal calls whereas the exchanges apis were external calls in 
  I think in the meantime.
Manu Sporny:  We've talked about you know where these endpoints 
  can be exposed and some of them can be exposed as internal API 
  some of them as external apis and some of them is both right and 
  so there's a question around us deciding that instead of calling 
  something an internal API or an external API we do what You Know 
  Joe has been suggesting we had this discussion a while ago.
Manu Sporny:   Go to basically say.
Manu Sporny:  Components and API could be exposed on so is this a 
  is this an API that's Exposed on a coordinator or is this an API 
  that's Exposed on a service or is is this an API that could be 
  exposed on both of them.
Manu Sporny:  Let me stop there and see what folks thoughts are 
  on this should we try to use internal external API language or 
  should we instead just say which components in API can be exposed 
  on go ahead Patrick.
Patrick_(IDLab): Well I was under the impression that all these 
  API path were part of this coordinator that we defined and it was 
  not meant to be exposed publicly but meant to be controlled by 
  another application like a web web application or whatever the 
  implementation requires.
Manu Sporny:  Um kind of speak to that directly here's our system 
  diagram right in this app stuff is being renamed coordinator but 
  once that's done there's a question around is the API you know 
  which one of these blocks is the API Exposed on or can it be 
  exposed on multiple of them and I think the reality today is that 
  some of the apis can be exposed on multiple of these blocks.
Manu Sporny:  While some of them are not really intended to be 
  exposed you know externally.
Manu Sporny:  No sorry the internal versus external language is 
  bad but it's the the idea is that we would be able to say oh the 
  issuer endpoint that's Exposed on the issue or service or the 
  exchanges and point well that can be exposed on the issuer 
  coordinator or the holder coordinator of the verifier coordinator 
  the status service is something you know the status get service 
  is exposed on.
Manu Sporny:   The status service.
Manu Sporny:  I think that's the that was a joke correct me if 
  I'm wrong but I think Joe that's your suggestion is to do that 
  and I think we had consensus to do that which would then mean 
  that the internal versus external nomenclature is not needed 
  anymore.
Manu Sporny:   Let me.
Manu Sporny:  Let's see if people lots of them.
Patrick_(IDLab): Because I'd feel like it would sort of add 
  another layer of complexity to have this external internal 
  distinction.
Manu Sporny:  Agreed go ahead Joe you're on the queue.
Joe Andrieu:  Yeah I just want to Echo I think that internal 
  external have we've moved past their usefulness and that's you 
  know we really don't have a perimeter model for security in this 
  system especially with three parter he's like who's inside whose 
  outside what's internal or external those were parts of the 
  semantic confusion as we were debating this before I think when 
  we identify who's calling what endpoint on what component then it 
  will pull into.
Joe Andrieu:   Focus the information we thought we were getting 
  with internal and external.
Joe Andrieu:  Tell General an endorsement for your approach 
  there, Manu.
Manu Sporny:  Oops sorry I was speaking so does that mean that we 
  basically close this issue noting that our plan is to.
Manu Sporny:  Use internal versus external language instead what 
  we're going to do is just note which apis are Exposed on what 
  components and talk about it that way.
Dave Longley: +1 To eliminating "internal / external" language 
  and using components instead
Joe Andrieu:  With OneNote and I think we I know we're still 
  trying to pull in some of the changes in language from the 
  coordinator and you know so that the components are anchored on 
  so I'm sorry so endpoints are anchored on a component I think we 
  also need to start folding in who's calling it or who is expected 
  to call it a someone calling an issuer coordinator on behalf of 
  the holder would.
Joe Andrieu:   Be a very different.
Joe Andrieu:  I'm privacy and security problem then if a verifier 
  we're contacting that same issuer on that same endpoint but in 
  their role as a verifier instead of their role is a holder and I 
  think those nuances were still just getting some awareness of how 
  do we how do we talk about them.
Manu Sporny:  The great go ahead Patrick and then we've got to 
  close up the call.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah so like for example I know we were 
  discussed like you mentioned like there's a reservation mechanism 
  in place my question sort of goes like does that a translation 
  mechanism apply to every endpoint or is there any point that are 
  designed to be sort of unanimously queried like the discovery and 
  point for example or that's not the case.
Manu Sporny:  Status status would be one example of that that's 
  supposed to be quote unquote anonymously hit and like the status 
  list in then the other one would be an exchange like starting 
  exchange could be started anonymously.
Manu Sporny:  Did that answer your question Patrick.
Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah so that case those two endpoints should be 
  public.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah and we're going to have to we'll have to 
  struggle through some of that language.
Manu Sporny:  And it's not clear if it's public right because you 
  could do that in an intranet which is technically not public 
  right okay so any objections to basically closing this issue and 
  not using the internal external language and focusing instead on 
  specifying suffice eyeing that pinpoints are anchored to specific 
  ecosystem.
Manu Sporny:   Come come.
Manu Sporny:  A service is coordinators and we all focus on who 
  all's each endpoint.
Manu Sporny:  Any objections I don't want to rush this if people 
  have a concern about it we can leave this to the next call.
Patrick_(IDLab): Open probably leave it.
Manu Sporny:  Okay all right we will cover this again I'll call 
  okay all right that's it for the call today apologies for going 
  four minutes over thank you everyone for the great discussion in 
  we will see everyone again next week thanks all bye.
