Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-10-11/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-10-11/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2022-10-11

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Oct&period_year=2022&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Mike Prorock, Valerie Thomas, Kimberly Linson, Jeff O - HumanOS, 
  Steve Magennis, Harrison Tang, tomj, Shawn Butterfield, Leo, 
  Geun-Hyung, BrentZ, Ross, Dmitri Zagidulin, Will, James 
  Chartrand, Phil L (P1), Adrian Gropper, Kaliya Young, Vriti, 
  Erica Connell, Lance, Stuart Freeman, John Kuo, Keith Kowal, Lucy 
  Yang, Janko, Ashley Viloria, David I. Lehn, David Chadwick, 
  Kayode Ezike, Kerri Lemoie, Markus Sabadello

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mike Prorock:  I am going here.
Valerie Thomas:  Okay which screen.
Mike Prorock:  I can see the SAT-P overview
Mike Prorock:  Full screen mode yeah.
Valerie Thomas:  Should I let me try I never hardly ever do this 
  make this full screen. Where is the
Valerie Thomas:  Is it visible? What did -
Mike Prorock:  No I think that's because I want to say f11 is the 
  hotkey for it but.
Valerie Thomas:  Wow I don't
Mike Prorock:  Oh, Apple L. Yeah down below read mode
Mike Prorock:  Yeah go View.
Mike Prorock:  Yep no worries let's see if that.
Mike Prorock: 
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Oct/0049.html
Valerie Thomas:  Is that good can you guys still hear me okay let 
  me know when I should start.
Mike Prorock:  All right cool yeah I'll run through our boiler 
  plate first and then we'll hand it to you so hello all welcome to 
  the W3C community credentials group weekly meeting the agenda 
  today is an overview of SAT-P from Thomas Hardjono who has been 
  gracious enough to join us from MIT to talk about this. There is 
  a lot of interesting overlap
Mike Prorock:   And definitely talking about some real-world
Mike Prorock: https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/
Mike Prorock:  Use cases that we see in terms of interoperability 
  and all other sorts of fun stuff so it I'm looking forward to the 
  conversation today just a quick reminder that the meeting today 
  alongside all meetings at W3C are covered by the code of ethics 
  and professional conduct and we should not have any issues there 
  because we rarely do if ever.
Mike Prorock: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
Mike Prorock:  Quick reminder from an IP note standpoint the 
  anyone can participate in these calls but any substantive 
  contributors actual CCG work items you must be a member of the 
  CCG with the IPR agreement signed membership is there if you need 
  it it's also in the agenda that I post about from the list we do 
  use IRC and the chat in the meeting software to queue speakers I 
  will be monitoring the queue if you need to add yourself to the 
  queue
Mike Prorock:   To ask a question you could just type q+.
Mike Prorock:  Or q+ plus the words to and then mention whatever 
  you're going to mention so that way you get reminded this meeting 
  is held by voice and not by IRC or chat so any off-topic comments 
  are subject to deletion in the records and we will rely on our 
  robot overlords to transcribe and scribe for us as they are doing 
  right now.
Mike Prorock:  Quick pause here for any introductions anyone new 
  to this call new to the CCG that has not been on before you can 
  just jump right in or type the letter q+ into the chat and 
  yourself to the queue and we would like to welcome you.
Mike Prorock:  Same holds for reintroductions if you've recently 
  changed roles or affiliations.
Mike Prorock:  Awesome great to have you don't hesitate to reach 
  out if you need any feedback or Connections in the community Etc 
  so great to have you.
Mike Prorock:  Any others? All right quick pause here now for any 
  announcements or reminders from the community just a quick 
  announcement from the chair side since I saw it I made it beat 
  the chairs to a comment on the list someone just proposed a 
  verifiable credential decentralized identifier use cases 
  community group which is kind of the CCG so we're reaching out to 
  them to let them know that the CCG exists we’re going to have
Mike Prorock:   Assume good faith here.
Mike Prorock:  Any other announcements from the community at 
  Large.
Kaliya Young:  Hey you know this is an old hat but IIW is coming 
  up I think earlier registration ended yesterday if you still want 
  to early register and you want to ping me I can get you a code 
  and we're really committed to accessibility we have diversity and 
  inclusion scholarships available and we really want to support 
  anybody who has something to
Kaliya Young:   Contribute and wants to
Kaliya Young:  Be at the event to able to be there I'll put my 
  email in chat if you want to or need to reach out.
Kaliya Young:  And I wanted to just share about another event 
  that I'm pulling together called the Thoughtful Biometrics 
  Workshop we did this in Winter of 2021 we are going to be hosting 
  it again in the winter of 2023 likely in February but I just 
  wanted to flag it and say that it was coming together if folks 
  were interested in and wanted to participate.
Mike Prorock:  Awesome thanks so much Kaliya. Uh, Vriti
Vriti: Hi there great to be here I'm Vriti I'm the founder of Ed3 
  DAO we're a non-profit that's educating rducators about Web3 and 
  we have a conference coming up in November it's a virtual 
  three-day conference a few folks from this group are actually 
  speaking at it the purpose is to bring concept of these 
  operability credentialing on unchain and things like that to the 
  educator community and so it's at ed3dao.com. Andif anyone
Vriti: wants to grab a 50% off discount, you can email me
<identity_woman> my e-mail to reach out about IIW 
  http://www.internetidentityworkshop.com. kaliya@identitywoman.net
<vriti> vriti@k20educators.com
Vriti: I'm vriti@k20educators.com I just dropped it in the chat 
  so yeah we'd love to have you.
Mike Prorock:  Awesome thank you.
Mike Prorock:  Cool let me see just double check the queue before 
  we hand it to Thomas.
<identity_woman> Also The Thoughtful Biometrics Workshop 
  http://www.thoughtfulbiometrics.org
Mike Prorock:  Dmitri I saw you hop on queue and then off queue 
  did I miss you there.
https://www.ed3dao.com/
Dmitri Zagidulin:  No I just wanted to remind people about the 
  JFF Plugfest the day before IIW but then I realized that I think
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Participation to that one is closed so that's 
  why I took myself off the queue.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah yeah no it's a good reminder though because I 
  think even if you're not participating it is definitely going to 
  be an interesting one to watch and there will be a lot of lessons 
  learned from that so well thanks for bringing that up.
Mike Prorock:  All right well thanks so much all with this I'm 
  going to just jump right into the content for the day so Thomas 
  I'm going to hand it over to you I met Thomas through I think 
  formally through the last IETF meeting and sat in on their birds 
  of a feather session around trying to get a working group 
  together around secure asset transfer which is an interesting 
  interesting question so with that I'm going to hand it to you to 
  give an overview of what you're up to over there and then
Mike Prorock:   Might have some here with the CCG.
Valerie Thomas:  I can already say there is but we’lll get to 
  that slide yeah so folks thank you for having me thank you Mike 
  for organizing this so this is about a group that was started 
  about maybe two years ago actually during covid and the story is 
  that so I work at MIT in a group called Connection Science we're 
  primarily driven by corporate sponsor funding and one of our 
  corporate
Valerie Thomas:   Sponsors company called Swisscomm that
Valerie Thomas:  Has a lot of interest in this space you know 
  came with the problem of interoperability between you know 
  existing Legacy systems and with this new technology blockchain 
  deal this and so on and that's sort of kick-started the whole 
  discussion but today I'm going to just jump two years later we 
  have this you know set of proposal ideas we have a draft charter 
  and Mike was saying we had our first BoF presentation in July at 
  IETF 114
Valerie Thomas:  In Philadelphia which you know prompted us to 
  keep on going and we're going to have another BoF at the IETF in 
  London in November so problem statement this is for those who are 
  familiar with the idea of this is what the ADs will make you do 
  this is the first slide so what's the problem statement so there 
  is definitely a problem with interoperability
Valerie Thomas:   Across blockchains
Valerie Thomas:  Even using the lingo even at between layer one 
  networks right that's that's that's that's a given and it's not 
  new this is this is a totally human problem and we saw this with 
  local area networks in the 80s and this is one of the reasons why 
  we have the TCP IP and why we have you know routing solution and 
  so on so the notion of interoperability here is seen from the 
  perspective of an asset so we don't like some people love the 
  idea of
Valerie Thomas:   Having unchained
Valerie Thomas:  Native assets and having you locked on to that 
  Network for good but if you are from an investment perspective if 
  you are trying to you know create you know next generation NFTs 
  that are bound to physical Goods it could be debilitating you 
  want your asset to be able to move around so so this this brings 
  us to one interpretation of blockchain interoperability is the 
  ability for a digital asset
Valerie Thomas:   To be moved from one network to another
Valerie Thomas:  And what we want to ensure is that there's no 
  double spending as we all familiar with and that the whole thing 
  is verifiable by some authorized third party the third party 
  could be you know a dispute resolution entity it could be the 
  government it could be anybody but there must be a mechanism to 
  allow that verification right so so this is this is what we came 
  to the IETF with.
Valerie Thomas:   And so what we came up with was the
<mprorock> quick note - these slides will be posted to the list - 
  and links to the core set of slides were included on the 
  datatracker link on the agenda
Valerie Thomas:  Motto of I could go back to the slides but I'll 
  go Gateway so it's very clear that we will see more and more 
  asset networks blockchains DLTs coming up you know in the future 
  I did I co-authored a survey last year and last count there's 
  like 80 plus different blockchains running out there and so many 
  many of them assume that the world will come on to that network 
  right.
Valerie Thomas:   And so to me this is exactly like the local
Valerie Thomas:  Area network problem in the 80s where IBM had 
  the IBM SNA proprietary protocol network there was DEC for those 
  who know Digital Equipment Corporation it just had his own thing 
  or DECNet and largely the lines were what is called the file 
  layer protocol layer 2 in the TCP IP to layer 2 set up and TCP IP 
  allowed data to be disconnected from its local area
Valerie Thomas:   Physical network implementation and be moved 
  across
Valerie Thomas:  To a different network using different physical 
  layer in a manifestation now when I help teach a couple of 
  courses to the students at MIT and I have to explain to many of 
  these students that there is no single public internet in fact 
  there is no open public internet it just looks that way and the 
  internet as we know it today in fact consists of a sequence of 
  private ISP networks that are stitched together
Valerie Thomas:   End to end so if I'm watching a
Valerie Thomas:  Netflix movie from in a runoff AWS servers up in 
  West Coast somewhere and it's Seattle area let's just say then 
  really my my packet is traversing across multiple private ISP 
  networks and between these networks that are so there are things 
  called gateways which we try the specific protocol called BGP 
  border Gateway protocol and I think it's version 4 BGP4 and it's 
  a standard protocol.
Valerie Thomas:   And how the BGP routed deals
Valerie Thomas:  With its internal Network or subnet it's up to 
  them of course now nowadays within each Network there's probably 
  a couple of standard routing protocols in OSPF and I think 
  probably a RIP version 2 and probably some other you know and you 
  know well understood well deployed routing routing protocol so 
  this is very similar with this diagram today we have you know 
  multiple networks some are public some are private I think going 
  forward we will
Valerie Thomas:   See more private.
Valerie Thomas:  Private asset networks being you know 
  established because just human beings like to trade and exchange 
  ideas within communities and sometimes it’s a closed communities 
  kind of make sense and so the challenge for us is well how can we 
  create a standard asset transfer protocol so that you can move an 
  asset from network 1 to network 2 using these two systems or 
  services
Valerie Thomas:   And without
Valerie Thomas:  Worrying how each system is going to deal with 
  this own Network so for the ITF work what we are proposing is 
  that the yellow area here in the middle is is the scope of work 
  and we can delve into some you know if you guys have questions or 
  you know I'm I should know the answer but but you know we can we 
  can talk about it later on so assumptions this is the second 
  slide that the area directors will make you write, assumptions, 
  so so we assume both
Valerie Thomas:   Networks share a common semantic understanding 
  so so there needs to be some kind
Valerie Thomas:  Of an application on both sides that drives it 
  right so if there's Alice on one side Bob and the other side 
  Alice says I want to send this digital asset to you so something 
  out of band has occurred before this transfer you know occurs and 
  in fact this is pretty much what happens today with the big 
  exchange companies that send you know cryptocurrencies to other 
  big exchange companies around the world that it's driven by the 
  cost of there's if there's an originator and a beneficiary on
Valerie Thomas:   On either side
Valerie Thomas:   Second assumption
Valerie Thomas:  Identity has been validated so we assume this 
  has happened right this is probably a topic that would be 
  relevant here and we can have a slide on that you know Alice and 
  Bob as the originated beneficiary needs need to be identified by 
  the by the service provider the third one is actually quite 
  fundamental we assume that one or both networks are opaque are 
  not transparent so the they could be both private which is like 
  the worst-case.
Valerie Thomas:   Scenario and the thinking is that if we can 
  design
Valerie Thomas:  A transfer protocl that can work for 2 private 
  closed non-transparent networks then if in one of them is if you 
  loosen the constraint in one of them is now you know a public 
  network then the protocol should just work right there's this 
  should not be any dependency between the transfer protocol with 
  any network specific construct right because this is exactly why 
  you get scalability
Valerie Thomas:   Today in the internet because the BGP
Valerie Thomas:  Routers mask away hide away the subnet 
  addressing the routing speed the the you know route damping 
  mechanisms being used within a given ISP Network and that's why 
  you know it scales up you know very well we assume the system's 
  the Gateway whether it's a bare-bones machine whether it's a 
  fully blown you know system whether it's a Mainframe people talk 
  about mainframes or whether it's
Valerie Thomas:   It's a service up in the cloud somewhere we 
  assume
Valerie Thomas:  That it is trusted and that and we can talk 
  about the fact that the Gateway has to be owned and operated by a 
  service provider and typically a service provider is a legally 
  registered business entity and we can talk about why this is 
  important because they have to take on financial liability in 
  becoming a Gateway lastly some assets related data quote metadata 
  kind of don't know what to call this it's not the transaction 
  yourself but you know information about
Valerie Thomas:   The you know
Valerie Thomas:  Entities who own or control the asset and so on 
  could be shared export out of the network you know with an 
  authorization from the entity or the person who owns that asset 
  in to a known and and you know selected entity.
Valerie Thomas:  So I'm this is a snippet of our increasingly 
  complex flow diagram we've been discussing this for at least a 
  couple of months now but all this stuff about assumptions and and 
  identities and credentials we’ve pushed this out up to phase 0 so 
  this is why I [_____] at this diagram so this is the entities we 
  have in mind so have Alice you know U1 running application 1
Valerie Thomas:  You have Bob U2 application A2 and all of this 
  stuff needs to happen in Phase 0 so in other words when Alice 
  somehow creates a transactional instructs Gateway G1 to transfer 
  an asset to Bob in network to via some Gateway which is going to 
  be G2 if it's selected then Alice and Bob must must know each 
  other and more
Valerie Thomas:   Importantly the service provider
Valerie Thomas:  G1 who owns Gateway G1 and the service provider 
  that owns Gateway G2 needs to know who Alice and Bob is per the 
  travel rule so this is why we believe identities and credentials 
  and DIDs and VCs play a crucial role in Phase zero because and 
  that's that we just we just want to use whatever the W3C comes up 
  with our focus is really the the flow itself
Valerie Thomas:   And what happens in terms of asset being locked
Valerie Thomas:  Being being exterminate extinguished being 
  minted and so on on the other side.
Valerie Thomas:  So three types of flows we call the modes of 
  flow so this first one is the one you just saw the unidirectional 
  transfer of asset the second one is a slightly less constrained 
  flow which is data Loosely called Data sharing kind of misnomer 
  but how can you extract here’s a private network network one I 
  want to copy out extract out some information from The Ledger.
Valerie Thomas:   In Network one
Valerie Thomas:  You know with authorization of course and move 
  that a copy that out and provide the some you know authorized 
  entity whose outside the network this is there's a if there's if 
  there's time I can show you a diagram this is this is very 
  important for the use case of supply chain tracking which is a 
  related in the fact to another group in the IETF which is the 
  SKIT SIITT secure supply chain was that in transparent, uh -
Mike Prorock:  Integrity transparency and trust it rolls off the 
  tongue yeah.
Valerie Thomas:  Thank you yeah it's like it's like a five-letter 
  you know working group so and in fact this is this one is driven 
  by a company called Trade Lens. So Trade Lens is the Venture 
  joint venture between IBM and Maersk and they do container 
  shipping tracking using fabric it's a working commercial system 
  the problem is it's not integrated into the try trade financing 
  Community right so
Valerie Thomas:   Here's a private Network
Valerie Thomas:  Clothes is available to shippers and shipping 
  entities if you want to be you know a seller or a buyer you have 
  to you know you have to do a bill of lading so the bill of lading 
  is on the on the blockchain great but now the banks can see it 
  right so now if you want to you know get a letter of credit 
  basically a debt you know instrument the banks not going to give 
  it to you unless you can show a bill of lading and so you know 
  that means that a gateway
Valerie Thomas:   Needs to export out portions
<identity_woman> Just to be clear - the open standards work 
  leveraging VCS is happening that Transmute is a key leader in.
Valerie Thomas:  Of the bill of lading into a form and and sign 
  it and provide to the bank so that the bank can believe it and 
  say yeah it's it's signed by this entity who owns this Gateway so 
  we believe it so now here's a check or here’s a bunch of money so 
  these are the two primary use cases we're working on right now 
  the third one is atomic swaps if you guys know what that is we 
  said to ourselves we’ll do atomic swaps when we finish these two 
  work items
Valerie Thomas:  Because you know just this too much work you 
  know on our plate so we've got numerous identity and credential 
  challenges so at the asset level there's the requirement from the 
  FATF the travel rule so in the current scenario with the you know 
  big exchanges these are these are private companies essentially 
  when you know Alice wants to use an exchange
Valerie Thomas:   In the United States to send
Valerie Thomas:  Crypotcurrencies or other assets to say an 
  exchange in Japan to Bob who lives in Tokyo this is exactly how 
  the correspondent banking works today both of these exchanges 
  have to maintain retain information personal data about Alice and 
  about Bob so that they can comply to the to travel rule so this 
  is something that we assume has happened right so this is I think 
  opportunity for this community to to
Valerie Thomas:   Look at this the second type of
Valerie Thomas:  Identity needed credential is for the service 
  provider itself so the service provider is a business and so 
  we've been looking at the LEI structure and LEI Gleif Foundation 
  we're looking at DIDs and VCs but we're not doing anything in 
  this space because it's we assume somebody else you know has done 
  it. We assume maybe this community has got a solution we just 
  going to adopt you know that solution fourth challenge
Valerie Thomas:   Is Gateway Discovery and identification right 
  so
Valerie Thomas:  If you know Gateway G1 if Alice says oh please 
  you know send this this thing to Bob and Bob is in some Network 
  that's and Gateway G1 won has never interacted with that network 
  well the first thing that the Gateway news needs to find out is 
  well what what are the compatible gateways that I can peer with 
  in this remote Network
Valerie Thomas:   So that's service discovery and then
Valerie Thomas:  Ell this this Gateway over there is giving me a 
  DID and the DID is actually parked on a blockchain somewhere else 
  and I need to look for that and I need to validate the URL I need 
  to check through the method all this stuff that's also out of 
  scope for us and so we're we're assuming what kind of hand waving 
  and assuming that the gateways have done this
Valerie Thomas:   And then of course there's all this other stuff
Valerie Thomas:  We need to look at which is you know logging 
  transaction related data so for legal purposes taxation purposes 
  some of this information needs to be logged somewhere right so 
  this brings the question that you know let's say you know United 
  States for taxation reasons has to be available and verifiable 
  for the next seven years five years seven years five years then 
  can whoever's auditing this in year 4 validate the identities of
Valerie Thomas:   All the entities involved
Valerie Thomas:  Right Alice Bob the service providers and can 
  they find if it's using a DID or VC can can that be fed so 
  discovered or do we need to also log off chain copies of the 
  relevant data structures pertaining to the identity and the 
  credentials so this is again this is this is out of scope for us 
  but I'm hoping that you know somebody or some folks here might be 
  you know interested in some of these or all of these you know
Valerie Thomas:   Questions we'd love to be
Valerie Thomas:  Working with you because this is a huge problem 
  set let's say I kind of feel that the transfer protocol itself is 
  complex enough and we just don't have the cycles to like even 
  even talk about this you know to a great length in our discussion 
  group.
Valerie Thomas:  Uh scope of work, API endpoints this is pretty 
  standard plain vanilla IETF scope of work resource identifiers 
  possibly including identity related identifiers message payload 
  of course and for the transfer protocol we're looking at a 
  two-phase commit or three phase commit variant to make sure to 
  ensure there's no double spending so the properties you want to 
  aim for are the acid properties so you
Valerie Thomas:   You want atomicity so you know no double 
  spending
Valerie Thomas:  Consistency again atomicity sorry means that 
  either the whole transaction occurs or nothing happens 
  consistency means no double spending the asset can only exist in 
  one of the networks at any one time isolation means that while 
  the transfer is occurring it needs to be protected from external 
  impact aspects in a crashes and so on and durability means that 
  once
Valerie Thomas:   Both gateways have completed the
Valerie Thomas:  2 PC or 3 PC commitment stage then it holds true 
  forever right there's no like there's no ambiguity it needs to 
  hold even if one of the gateways crashes so this is possible 
  scenario that the very last message of the commit one of the 
  Gateway you know crashes then what happens right and where 
  there's folks working on how to address crash recovery that we 
  have a you know a primary Gateway and the secondary back
Valerie Thomas:  Backup sort of Gateway what about session 
  resumption
Valerie Thomas:  Because between G1 and G2 is running TLS.
<identity_woman> VCs about things - they themselves are not 
  "assets" and are definitely on-chain so I'm really not clear the 
  value that what you are proposing is bringing forward.
Valerie Thomas:  So does the backup Gateway you know resume the 
  TLS so there's all these other issues that come into play but 
  that's kind of the the scope of the group we've got an 
  architecture draft we've got a set core protocol we’ve got a 
  number of other drafts you know being written crash recovery 
  Discovery asset profile so what we mean by an asset profile is a 
  definition a legal definition of what digital asset is
Valerie Thomas:   And a legal definition of who has the authority 
  to
<identity_woman> *definitely not onchain
Valerie Thomas:  Issue this this is important because when you 
  have networks that are carrying actual value bearing blobs the 
  data objects you want to know so Gateway G2 needs to know that 
  this asset that's going to come ingress into its network number 
  one it's at the legal level legal layer it's a known defined 
  asset so the good example is in Switzerland there’s a thing 
  called a
Valerie Thomas:   Promissory note big piece of paper
Valerie Thomas:  So gateway 2 needs to needs to understand that 
  this is a digital promissory note it's issued by a bank in 
  Switzerland and that's covered under some you know FINMA 
  regulation out of Switzerland so things like that that's pretty 
  much out of scope for us we just we just put it there as a way to 
  tell people that were considering this but asset profiles are out 
  of scope for us.
Valerie Thomas:  So we’ve got the discussion group it's we've 
  been meeting informally since September 2020 Lots of people 
  timezone is an issue because we have people in India we have guys 
  in Australia and of course in Europe we have a mailing list 
  you're most welcome to join this is open folks you just you just 
  dial in the zoom zoom link is on the mailing list you know every 
  week and
Valerie Thomas:   We plan to have a BoF at the coming
Valerie Thomas:  London IETF in November and we're just doing 
  that scope of work and the area in the IETF that this’ll 
  hopefully will fall under is the security area but we'll see 
  we'll see if the IETF accepts this as a work item because it's 
  kind of new for IETF community because it deals with with assets 
  the notion of digital assets what else oh thank you couple of 
  plugs for our new book there Building The New Economy.
Valerie Thomas:  And this there's a there's a couple of chapters 
  there to talk about some of this stuff but going back there so 
  that's that's the end of my presentation I prefer to have like a 
  kind of a Q&A discussion as opposed to just having a one-way you 
  know me you know doing slides.
Mike Prorock:  We can absolutely facilitate and now really 
  appreciate the time on this and I you know obviously there's a 
  lot of you know and I think I said it in your last BoF right I 
  mean this is a legitimate problem right and interoperability of 
  particular is one of those things that
Mike Prorock:  You know is going to be tough and the IETF 
  challenge side obviously is that you have that magic word 
  blockchain in there which obviously then immediately as much as 
  you want to try to avoid it right it causes all sorts of feathers 
  get ruffled so there's definitely some overlap and I think I 
  mentioned this as well as some stuff here at CCG but I want to 
  make sure you know other folks are getting on the queue Harrison 
  I see you up here.
Mike Prorock:  And then by the way Thomas your screen share is 
  still up.
Mike Prorock:  If you want kill it
Valerie Thomas:  Sorry let me okay let me stop screen sharing
Mike Prorock:  So Harrison fire away
Harrison_Tang: Well thanks Thomas yeah this is might be the 
  newbie questioned but I know Kosmos is building itself and trying 
  to say they're trying to build an internet of blockchains on top 
  of I think it's called inter blockchain communication protocol so 
  how is this SATP kind of differ and or in some ways similar to 
  the Kosmos like interblock changing communication program?
<tomj> i am running into a similar problem with logging things 
  which are considered private by gdpr - is that part of the groups 
  discussion
Valerie Thomas:  Yep I hear that everywhere I go I just had a 
  call with the Avalanche guys three weeks ago and this is the 
  president you know of and an engineer and they have their own 
  sort of asset transfer thing and the reason the reason why I 
  think this work needs to be done outside any specific communities 
  is that it needs neutrality
Valerie Thomas:   It needs neutrality it
Valerie Thomas:  Needs a solution that's not bound to any 
  incentive mechanism right so with 80 different blockchains now 
  people are trying to do what is it bilateral transfers 
  everybody's typically designing for interop with etherium.
Valerie Thomas:   All right so we're gonna
Valerie Thomas:  Probably end up with like 80 varieties of a 
  transfer protocol but I think this work needs to be done it needs 
  to be written specifications and in the IETF you need two 
  versions of Open Source Code implementing this we have in fact 
  think three different groups organizations implementing beginning 
  to implement SAT-P and and I'm hoping that you know this could 
  just be the neutral protocolthat you know is simple to understand
Valerie Thomas:   It gets over and done with and so it's key that
Valerie Thomas:  It's not bound to any incentive and 
  incentivisation you I mean no token raises there is no tokens 
  needed gateways can charge whatever Gateway providers service 
  providers that run gateways they can charge whatever they want to 
  the network or to Alice or to Bob it should not be part of the 
  specification technical specification definition and I think that 
  that kind of helps
Mike Prorock:  Awesome Steve I see you on the queue there, uh 
  Magennis.
<mprorock> wow, transcriber - behave
Steve Magennis:  Thanks. Thomas, a question for you I think you 
  mentioned earlier that Swisscom is kind of sponsoring some of 
  this work I'm wondering you know a have they signed up to kind of 
  help you evangelize and promote this once it's out there and 
  maybe sort of talk about their interest in that and what they 
  plan on doing to basically get others on board
Valerie Thomas:  Sure it's actually so we have a lot of well not 
  a lot number of sponsors corporate sponsors who are interested in 
  such as Swisscom so EY is very interested in this EY has been 
  doing all sorts of experimentation projects and in fact a lot of 
  what I would call a traditional corporations have invested a lot 
  of money in The Last 5 Years doing pilots and so on and so on of 
  you know
Valerie Thomas:  Internal implementations and blockchains
Valerie Thomas:  I don't know what
Valerie Thomas:  Swisscomm or EY all these guys have in mind 
  specifically but when they see my presentation they kind of say 
  yeah you know we kind of we kind of need this and we have we have 
  a we have a Swisscomm you know representative who attends you 
  know our weekly meeting now so I presume they're interested in 
  this we've got a couple of guys who work for the finance 
  Community in London and they're building a product you know for 
  this
Valerie Thomas:   And in their particular case it’s this 
  traditional case
Valerie Thomas:  Situation wasa
Valerie Thomas:  A banking which a monolithic banking system with 
  an RTGS system you know system in the back and so on and they 
  need not 2 gateways they just need one gateway to talk to the 
  blockchain and vice versa right so they need they need that kind 
  of you know Gateway so the the problem itself once once I explain 
  to these guys in many ways
Valerie Thomas:  It captures a lot of the dilemmas that 
  traditional organizations have today when facing this you know 
  new technology called blockchains and DLTs and and this is a 
  mechanism the Gateway model is something that they can you know 
  latch their minds to at the IETF meeting in July IETF 114 you 
  know there were a couple of guys in the back of the rooms from 
  Swift right so you guys know Swift
Valerie Thomas:   And gateways are a no-brainer for these
Valerie Thomas:  Guys like yeah we've kind of invented gateways 
  is what they told me so so it's a it's a good architecture model 
  in that it it's well known in the in the you know financial 
  industry it is the model that's part of the core part of the 
  internet architecture that allows routing to scale up very very 
  fast at a global scale and so you know I'm hoping to answer your 
  specific question I'm hoping one or more or
Valerie Thomas:   All of these sponsors who are interested in 
  this work will
Valerie Thomas:  Actually you know promote it fingers crossed
Steve Magennis:  Thank you
Mike Prorock:  Awesome I think Kaliya you are next, yep
Kaliya Young:  Hi sorry I'm just umuting challenges I guess I'm 
  some of the things you said Thomas sort of didn't make sense to 
  me so I just I made comments in the chat as you spoke but I just 
  wanted to raise them and get clarification I think many of the 
  companies in on this community have worked via the Silicon Valley 
  Innovation program on implementing
Kaliya Young:   Verifiable credentials for a trade use cases
Kaliya Young:  Verifiable credentials are not Assets in and of 
  themselves they're just assertions about - sorry let me turn the 
  kettle off
Kaliya Young:  They're just assertions about things and they 
  don't like they don't need the kind of transferability you're 
  talking about they're already off chain they're shareable by the 
  holder with whoever they want so I guess I'm confused about some 
  of what you were asserting in your presentation when it’s already 
  solved with off chain solutions
Kaliya Young:   That are standards based coming out of this 
  community
Valerie Thomas:  Yeah no no I think we’re talking about two 
  different things so the asset itself sometimes I use the example 
  of an NFT that represents a physical asset so this is getting a 
  lot of traction so you guys have heard of Beeple and was it the 
  Ape NFT so a digital only NFT an unchained only NFT is great fine 
  there's a market for that but there's an even huger market for 
  digital unchained digital representations
Valerie Thomas:   Of physical assets, whether it’s
<identity_woman> You mean what Mattereum is doing - 
  https://mattereum.com/
Valerie Thomas:  Your 200 million dollar Picasso sitting in a 
  bank while whether it's you know a thousand kilos of gold bars in 
  a depositor somewhere so you know what once the world sort of 
  discovers this I think people are digital twin NFT I don't know 
  what you know what to call that kind of NFT sort of a hybrid NFT 
  there's this question of how how can you disconnect the NFT 
  itself from the particular network implementation
Valerie Thomas:  Right so there’s ERC 721 that's great but is 
  there a way to have a token that's separated away from a 
  particular Network so that it can move across two different 
  networks for this community I think what's relevant is that the 
  DID or the VC idea pertain not to the asset but to the players 
  the legal entities that have to help have to participate
Valerie Thomas:   In getting this
Valerie Thomas:  Asset cross from one network to another so that 
  means the originator Alice the beneficiary Bob the service 
  provider and it could be it could be also the authority that 
  issued the the token the begin with the NFT to begin with so so 
  this is it makes you know this is to me this is like the identity 
  this group is the identity layer above
Valerie Thomas:   The secure asset transfer protocol
Valerie Thomas:  So I think it's two separate problems
Mike Prorock:  Yeah I'll jump in it because I see the queue 
  building up because I think Kaliya you're getting at a great line 
  of questioning one thing I did want to note Thomas just in case 
  it's not on your radar there are multiple of us using DIDs for 
  digital twins for real-world stuff along with other types of 
  things to avoid NFT chaos and stuff like that and doing it in a 
  regulatory compliant way so just you know interesting topic for 
  future side discussions there Keith I see you on the queue
Keith Kowal:  Yeah thanks Thomas so I think travel rules are a 
  really interesting topic and it's something that I've had to 
  learn a lot about as I’ve transitioned more into Web3 I think you 
  can not ignore ignore like the traveler will protocols that are 
  being established like Shift, Trisa, Open Vat which are all like 
  essentially like off chain protocols for ask communication like 
  that's a big thing I mean I don't see that much VC DIDs being 
  used for travel rule except maybe the discussions happening in 
  Center Consortium
Keith Kowal:   Like led by Kim Hamilton Duffy where you know you 
  have maybe an on chain component and then you have offchain
Keith Kowal:  Communication for transfer of DIDs but I think also 
  the thing you always get stuck into is that it's not just about 
  movement of DIDs and VCs it also has to be the trust 
  architectures because who who owns the DID who manage like you 
  need all the trust architectures as well so and you also need 
  typically like account identification so that's actually why a 
  lot of travel rule protocols have a good head start because they 
  take on the trust problems they take on the account 
  identification problems you know it's not just the transfer of 
  travel rule information it's
Keith Kowal:   Like a whole bucket of stuff that
Valerie Thomas:  I'm on the board of Trisa and so Trisa how do I 
  say this politely Trisa is the majority of people there are 
  policy makers so I've mentioned you know DIDs, VCs, and they say 
  well great put it put it in the white paper you know but for the 
  traveler or the concern for them is well number one VASP
Valerie Thomas:   Discovery so here's a is a VASP of the United 
  States
Valerie Thomas:  And Alice is in the United States and Alice says 
  send this you know bunch of tokens or cryptocurrency to Bob in 
  Africa.
Valerie Thomas:  Okay so and all Alice has his maybe Bob's email 
  address or public key right so where does the VASP discover this 
  other VASP that supposed to be in Africa that's problem number 
  one and problem number two how does the US VASP validate that the 
  African VASP is a legal legally registered business covered under 
  the local jurisdiction
Valerie Thomas:   Because what's going to happen is
Valerie Thomas:  The US VASP has to send to Africa Alice's 
  personal information which is the BSA 986 regulations so this is 
  first name last name address telephone number and a few other 
  bits of information account number and so the last thing Alice 
  and the US VASP want to happen is that Alice’s data is sitting in 
  some PC computer in in Africa and it gets hacked and it's lost
Valerie Thomas:   Right so there's this there's almost this
Valerie Thomas:  Incompatibility of of jurisdictions which in the 
  past has been sort of umbrelled and by [_____] and but now in 
  this new world of crypto gets pretty pretty complex right and 
  you're right it's not it's not even about the DID structure and 
  the VC structure its who says that this data about Alice is 
  accurate and who says this data about Bob is accurate who's 
  willing to take on financial liability if either the information 
  is incorrect or they lie
Valerie Thomas:   Right this is this is what you sort of brought 
  up, which is the 
Valerie Thomas:  Trust trustworthiness sort of aspect.
<identity_woman> This is where the trust framaework work comes in
Mike Prorock: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop
Mike Prorock:  Awesome Point watching the queue I think we've got 
  a pause in the queue here I'm gonna go with the fun point-blank 
  question which is why not just use the Trade Center up for the 
  API layer and everything else and so that's what's rolling out US 
  gov-wise regulatory-wise for trade and imports and all that kind 
  of fun stuff?
<phil_l_(p1)> Sounds like a strong argument for trust 
  repositories.  And specs for these.
Valerie Thomas:  We could I've heard that suggestion where we're 
  looking at it in or right now and and yeah it's a good question I 
  don't know what the future of that effort will be
Mike Prorock:  Yeah we'd love to have you obviously there's a lot 
  of a lot of work going on there from a lot of different parties 
  and tech demos or starting with US gov in January right so and 
  some stuff to be definitely make sure it's on the radar folks. 
  Harrison?
Harrison_Tang: Yes I'm just curious because what you described 
  sounds to me like KYC know your customer kind compliance problems 
  like so have you and the group like consider partnering with KYC 
  vendors you know in the solving these issues?
<identity_woman> that is the point - you are solving a business 
  problem by forming a technical thing at IETF
<identity_woman> ??? we are wondering why
Valerie Thomas:  Not specifically so IETF is an engineering 
  organization it's not like it doesn't have a doesn't have a 
  business group it doesn't have a Marketing Group most most 
  consortiums industry consortiums typically end up having a policy 
  group / Marketing Group nothing like that so there's no one in 
  theIETFno one in our groups mostly Engineers is really talking to 
  that you know community I am myself and another guy is probably 
  the only two people are sort of
Valerie Thomas:   Following what's happening in the KYC area but 
  but Harrison you're absolutely.
Valerie Thomas:  Spot on this is a KYC problem and for the IETF 
  it’s like well it's out of scope either this is Phase zero as you 
  saw before in this slide this is all the on the difficult legal 
  stuff like KYC and so it happens before Gateway G1 talks to 
  Gateway G2.
Mike Prorock:  So just quick question because I'm looking at 
  back-channel here and you know I always like to ask the fun 
  questions which is what about accusations that you're just 
  spinning upset p as cover to avoid accusations of vendor lock-in 
  between proprietary hyper ledgers situations?
Valerie Thomas:  Well so you know I'm known to become unpopular 
  for saying certain things but I think I think the you know there 
  is still new blockchains you know that are vendor-specific that 
  are being spun up it usually doing a token raised and the whole 
  point you know I love all the words about yeah we want you know 
  what's the famous phrase financial inclusion we want to solve 
  world hunger using blockchain and I love I love all of that.
Valerie Thomas:   But the BS and the hype has to stop and if 
  you’re just spinning
Valerie Thomas:  Up yet another blockchain and doing a token 
  raised and then you have a foundation and then you know next 
  thing you know the foundation collapses you know isn't that like 
  you know a story that you know is kind of getting old I mean you 
  know coin there seems to have a story like that every month right 
  and this is why I'm saying we kind of need to look at a technical 
  specification technical Solution that's that's you know separated 
  from the whole financial sort of motivation incentivization 
Mike Prorock:  Awesome and I did see, yeah, Keith go ahead.
<identity_woman> can you spell trisa please
Keith Kowal:  I just want to follow up on your comment so I 
  didn't realize you were a member of Trisa so like I've been 
  attending a lot of Trisa meetings like I think it's like I think 
  Trisa’s a really interesting organization they have a lot of 
  interesting stakeholders like their new Enterprise directory 
  which is basically like a trust directory is very interesting 
  I've also like wondered well how do you get them to be more adopt 
  DIDs VCs like off chain you know architecture and it does seem 
  like it's a
Keith Kowal:  I mean it seems like maybe it's a non-starter 
  because they just you know they use their proprietary protocol 
  APIs to
Keith Kowal:  Transfer that information I just wonder what your 
  thoughts are about how - 
Valerie Thomas:  Keith you need you need to come you know in the 
  meetings just speak up and say Hey I want to contribute to the to 
  the spec whatever version it is now a think it's version 11 or 
  version 12 and say Hey you know I want to add DID VC data 
  structure to represent the VASP I think I think that would be 
  most welcome by the Trisa community
Valerie Thomas:  Absolutely I'm behind you you you know if you 
  want sort of somebody to help you co-author that for the white 
  paper I'm happy to do that you know you're right right now it's 
  just a directory service to look up VASPS
Valerie Thomas:   Right and so you
Valerie Thomas:  Know I suggested them well you know it could be 
  a blockchain it's in itself the director could be represented as 
  blockchain but I think this idea was just a directory is it's a 
  more palatable conceptually sort of model particularly for 
  policymakers because they can they can sort of Imagine does this 
  database in the sky that's going to have a list of all the VASPs 
  you know so a list of VASPs is
Valerie Thomas:   Is a concept that's familiar for people
Valerie Thomas:  In the policy and regulatory sector because 
  typically you know they already have a list of banks you know 
  consortiums of you know of banks are listed you know if you're a 
  member of Swift you're listed in that certain someone.
Mike Prorock:  Quick so two questions before we close out from 
  the text chat there one is can you clarify spelling on Trisa
Valerie Thomas:  T R I S A
Keith Kowal: https://trisa.io/
<mprorock> TRISA
Mike Prorock:  Perfect thank you I'll type that out for those 
  that don’t have it and then the other question was just as far as 
  you know potential items related to stuff that you know just what 
  we're looking and auditing at data that has to be collected and 
  stuff like that are there you know GDPR things you're running 
  into or things like that around data privacy
Mike Prorock:  Side either with offchain. I know
Mike Prorock:  You’re trying to keep some of that stuff out of 
  scope but it's a question that popped up in the chat there
Valerie Thomas:  Yeah I'm not seeing the chat but in the IETF, 
  no, but in Trisa, yes.
Keith Kowal: https://openvasp.org/
https://trisa.io/
Valerie Thomas:  So you know this whole need for you know 
  entities the VASP to retain beneficiary and originator you know 
  personal data information for multiple years that's a Trisa 
  problem that in fact that's it that's all the this everybody's 
  problem right whether you're coinbase it's a what I call using 
  quite invested example of Binance pick your exchange they all 
  have the same dilemma.
Valerie Thomas:   And it's not a new dilemma
Valerie Thomas:  The banking sector had had to deal with this 30 
  years ago 40 years ago.
Mike Prorock:  Yes yes it's not a new problem for sure awesome 
  well I think that's pulling us right up to about time any closing 
  statements obviously want to thank you very much for your time 
  here the great topic and there's a lot to cover here and a lot of 
  great overlap and they it's one of those areas
Mike Prorock:   Where I see a lot of
Mike Prorock:  Cross interaction between IETF and CCG folks and 
  W3C folks so it's a very happy to bring you over so yeah.
Valerie Thomas:  Yeah yeah yeah absolutely you know feel free to 
  reach out to me directly or join the mailing list because you 
  know we're relying on this community for the for the identity DID 
  VC structure we're not doing any of that you know work in the 
  IETF so you know any help that you guys can provide us you know 
  you know in that area would be much appreciated.
<harrison_tang> Thank you, Thomas!
Valerie Thomas:  Thank you Mike thank you folks.
Mike Prorock:  Awesome well thanks so much again just a big 
  thanks from all of us here at CCG really appreciate the open 
  questions and we'll cross our fingers for you for the next BoF 
  and probably try to grab an update and just see where the work 
  evolves to so it's really appreciate it thanks again.
Mike Prorock:   Thanks all
