Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-01-09-vc-education/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-01-09-vc-education/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC for Education Task Force Transcript for 2023-01-09

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2023Jan/0007.html
Topics:
  1. IP Note
  2. Call Notes
  3. Introductions & Reintroductions
  4. Announcements & Reminders
  5. Review topics from 2022 including use cases, Open Badges 
    3.0, Plugfests, and community demos. Bring your thoughts about 
    what the task force should focus on in 2023.
Organizer:
  Kerri Lemoie, Simone Ravaioli, Dmitri Zagidulin
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Jeff O - HumanOS, Andy Griebel, Mike Peck, Chris Webber, Julie 
  Keane, Sharon Leu, Aditya, Manu Sporny, Deb Everhart, Naomi, 
  Dmitri Zagidulin, Stuart Freeman, Phil L (P1), Keith Hackett, 
  Brent Shambaugh, Marty Reed, James Chartrand, Taylor (LEF), Jen 
  Schreiber, Kayode Ezike, Ryan Grant, Nis Jespersen , David 
  Chadwick, Colin Reynolds, Ed Design Lab, John Kuo, xander - 
  ASU/Pocket, Naomi Szekeres, Chandi Cumaranatunge, David Ward, Jim 
  Goodell, Nate Otto, Tim Dutta, Kaliya Young, Ashley Cribb, Jim 
  Kelly, Geun-Hyung, Phil Barker

<simone_ravaioli_(vc_edu)> Happy New Year VC EDUers !
<julie_keane> Yes
<simone_ravaioli_(vc_edu)> :+1:
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Haha there's a CD box.
<julie_keane> Happy New Year all!
<sharon_leu> Happy New Year!
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Manu Sporny:  There it is.
<simone_ravaioli_(vc_edu)> Done
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah a transcriber seems to be working okay 
  all right so let me share screen and we will get started.

Topic: IP Note

Topic: Call Notes

Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right size for minutes passed so welcome 
  everyone to the verifiable credentials in education task force 
  part of the credentials w3c credentials community group let's 
  call is being recorded this these meetings are generally IPR 
  protected which means if you're not a member of the credentials 
  community group please let us know will direct you to where it's 
  sign up the policy is if you're to make any.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Substantial contributions to the specs.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Then you need to have signed a PR agreement 
  but this week we're going to do a sort of retrospective at recap 
  of the air and I'm going to talk about some of the things going 
  to do in this new year I'll let's let's start with introductions 
  reintroductions and Community announcements look is there anyone 
  that knew you all would like Miriam.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Excellent welcome Morgan with digital bizarre 
  Brent.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> hearing a lot of static
<julie_keane> I am too!
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Is no worries.

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

Brent Shambaugh:  Oh I guess I was on mute so I had my hand out 
  okay yeah I'm friends and my from well I'm independent but I in 
  this community I probably worked over at the death with interrupt 
  group right now.
Brent Shambaugh:  Hopefully Daniel yeah.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Excellent welcome Brent.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> better now
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right side with anybody else wants to do 
  introductions reintroductions raise your hand or just a mute and 
  go ahead.

Topic: Announcements & Reminders

Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right any Community announcements.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So I know we've got I know kolia has a couple 
  of community events coming up.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Collin go ahead.
Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab: Hey good morning I'm supporting a 
  project with the T3 Network and US chamber and a Design Lab that 
  is called experience you or we're looking at using AI to support 
  taking unstructured learner and experience data and putting it in 
  a structured formats for Ellie ours and we have our kickoff event 
  coming up in just over two weeks so I'll put a link to the.
Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab:  chat or in the chat for that 
  event.
Colin_Reynolds,_Ed_Design_Lab: To register but I would love to 
  have people come out and we'll be putting out a little bit of an 
  overview and project call with that as well but I'll put the link 
  in the chat for more info or if you have any questions feel free 
  to shoot me an email.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Please do thank you.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Let's see I think of Mana was next.
Manu Sporny: https://w3c.github.io/vc-status-list-2021/
<colin_reynolds,_ed_design_lab> Experience You Kickoff Event 
  registration: 
  https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZElcuihrT4vHd3VIMOoNqMoMp7QjrvYpipr
Manu Sporny:  Yes a Dimitri just a quick heads up everyone just a 
  technical update status list 20 21 this is the thing that lets 
  you revoke credentials or suspend credentials has been migrated 
  to the verifiable credentials working group as official standards 
  track deliverable that's good news we expect it's probably going 
  to take another 18 months or so to get to.
Manu Sporny:   Final standard but if.
<phil_l_(p1)> @Colin - thanks for announcing that!
<colin_reynolds,_ed_design_lab> If you have questions or want to 
  connect about the project prior to our kickoff, please reach out: 
  creynolds@eddesignlab.org
Manu Sporny:  You weren't paying attention please do pay 
  attention to that spec now because whatever is in there is going 
  to end up becoming a standard so if you need changes 
  modifications Now's the Time to raise issues on the specification 
  it is now under the control of the verifiable credential working 
  group I put a link to the spec in IRC there is a link to the 
  GitHub issue tracker so if you have issues with the spec please.
Manu Sporny:   He's raised them there that's it.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you so much Mana this and for those of 
  you who are not familiar with the spec it is one of the small 
  handful of credential revocation mechanisms that has aspect 
  currently it's something we're using in the video we see edge of 
  group something we've discussed briefly in previous calls 
  something we're using at digital credentials Consortium so please 
  take a look.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Your next stop.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  We can go ahead.
<colin_reynolds,_ed_design_lab> @Phil - of course! I have a 
  feeling this group will be curious about the project and outcomes 
  :-)
<naomi> Happy New Year! Had some tech/sound issues, but hearing 
  now :) - Naomi (Velocity)
Kaliya Young:  Great um so there's two things well actually maybe 
  three but um coming up March 1 2 3 I'm working with Heidi who 
  helps me run iaw and local Partners to put on the aipac digital 
  identity unconference in Thailand.
Kaliya Young:  Just like IW it's open space technology so it's 
  you know that's its own challenge of explaining how that works to 
  people with the agenda co-created live the day of the event that 
  hopefully we can attract enough folks from the region so if you 
  know anybody in a pack that is always sad that can't come to I 
  had W because it's too far away and too expensive to get to this 
  is an opportunity to connect with folks working on digital 
  identity regionally.
Kaliya Young:  And also putting on something called the 
  thoughtful Biometrics Workshop happening March 14 to 17 it's a 
  virtual unconference focused on really supporting communities who 
  don't really talk to each other about Biometrics doing so 
  including folks like us who work on digital identity that sort of 
  sometimes touches Biometrics but doesn't.
Kaliya Young:   It's not the center of what we.
Kaliya Young:  Um and IW registration is open I W is the main 
  global forum for things internet identity except ra and that's 
  coming up April 18 to 20th in Mountain View California thanks.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you so much Kelly I'm looking forward to 
  it and on and go ahead.
Kaliya Young: https://www.apacdigitalid.org/
Kaliya Young: https://www.thoughtfulbiometrics.org/
Manu Sporny: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/di-eddsa-2020/
Manu Sporny:  Yeah one other kind of request from the community 
  so I mentioned that status list 20 21 that's transitioned into 
  the verifiable credentials working group the other thing that 
  we're trying to transition into the working group are crypto 
  sweets specifically the Crypt of sweets that we used in the jobs 
  for the future to plugfest namely the Edwards curve crypto sweet 
  ed2 5519 signature 2020.
Manu Sporny:   And there were 17 to.
Kaliya Young: http://www.internetidentityworkshop.com
Manu Sporny:  And T organizations that used this crypto sweet to 
  demonstrate interoperability right before Thanksgiving we had a 
  call to pull it into the verifiable credentials working group in 
  the call failed and it failed because Microsoft objected to 
  moving it in their claim was that no one was really using the 
  crypto sweet so that's not true clearly you know we have data 
  from jobs for the.
Manu Sporny:  As showing at least 17 to 20 people using the 
  crypto sweet so we have to now go out and get documentation that 
  people are actually using this crypto sweet so I will be sending 
  an email out to a number of you that have implemented this crypto 
  sweet to document that people have implemented it we have 
  demonstrated real interop using the crypto sweet so that it can 
  be pulled into the working group into the verifying.
Manu Sporny:   Credentials working group.
Manu Sporny:  An official standards track deliverable that's it.
<simone_ravaioli_(vc_edu)> A write-up about Plugfest (with the 
  numbers Manu mentioned) 
  https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/plugfest-simone-ravaioli/
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Awesome thank you so much Manu.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right so I think that's I think that's 
  everyone so let's let's get into our year ah thank you Monica or 
  thank you Simone a pasting the link in Chad's to the write-up 
  about the plugfest that have been mentioned see Naomi you're no 
  longer on the queue.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Go ahead and add me.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Oh no problem.
Naomi: Bear and Demetria sisters General announcements for the 
  year great I missed the intro my sound wasn't working quite right 
  but thanks hi everyone I just wanted to make mention that 
  velocity is actually kicking off an education cluster beginning 
  in February I can absolutely send around some information to 
  everyone in this group anyone on the call and I'll just mention 
  that velocities clusters are really around focusing on the issues 
  of adoption and how do we drive you know greater adoption of.
Naomi:  verifiable digital credentials you know in general.
Naomi: To mention that invite everyone who wants to reach out to 
  me with for more information to reach out and I can also 
  circulate some information that kind of gives an overview of what 
  we're planning thanks.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you and if you don't mind if you can 
  paste in chat us some way to reach you and just quick question 
  clusters are what like many conferences or working groups.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Perfect thank you.
Naomi: It's kind of more like a working group it's a and what I 
  circled I'll circulate will actually explain it better but 
  basically they're their groups of members and we want to make 
  sure that with the education cluster specifically we're 
  communicating with the broader ecosystem in education but 
  basically focus on how do we drive adoption so that's really what 
  the focus is.

Topic: Review topics from 2022 including use cases, Open Badges 3.0, Plugfests, and community demos. Bring your thoughts about what the task force should focus on in 2023.

Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right I think that's everyone so let's 
  let's do a quick retrospective I'm going to share screen and.
<simone_ravaioli_(vc_edu)> will do
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I don't have a good way to monitor chat so 
  please feel free to speak up or Simona if you can monitor chat 
  and just let me know everyone feel free to ask questions as we 
  go.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right so sharing screen.
<simone_ravaioli_(vc_edu)> These are the slides we are sharing 
  today: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1XrrXHcQI3_M_VMgeSyVloJ0z6jrZHhDKiqRNM3Lw0TE/edit#slide=id.g1c82cadbcc6_0_0
<naomi> Hi, my contact is naomi.szekeres@velocitycareerlabs.com; 
  feel free to reach out re. Education Cluster (exploration to 
  begin in February)
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Okay hopefully everybody can see it infinitely 
  in full screen mode all right yeah so we're going to talk about 
  some of the very fabric credentials and education initiatives 
  that this group has been focusing on some of the standards that 
  we've discussed on the calls or and or have a hand in developing 
  talk about some Community Showcase and upcoming challenges and 
  some preview items for 2023 and of course as always wear.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Really eager to hear from the community 
  about.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  There are projects that you're working on 
  energy in the intersection of Education verifiable credentials if 
  you are kind of wallets we want to hear about it and if you run 
  into standard sub problems or questions and would like to have a 
  call around it please reach out to one of the chairs which is 
  Cary Illinois Simona and myself.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   I thought talk about something.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  As much as possible we try to focus the 
  conversation in the vcg working group the task force rather on 
  these calls around the use cases so this is a document we've all 
  been working on for a while and especially carrying the boy 
  Donald a lot of work and a lot of heavy lifting on these use 
  cases including user roles and needs and tasks so everybody 
  please feel free to take a look at the document.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Give us feedback.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  About it and we'll be coming back to the 
  document in future calls one of the incredible experiences in 
  2022 was a series of interoperability plug fests held by the jobs 
  of the Future Foundation by very very own Sharon Lou and and 
  everybody else that actually let me I think Sharon's on the call 
  so sharing dude.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Do what I say just a couple of words of.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  What the plugfest swear for those just coming 
  in are unfamiliar with it.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah yeah yeah.
<colin_reynolds,_ed_design_lab> and she passed!
<phil_l_(p1)> VC-EDU use cases - 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/18Qa0ObeZxZ-XT_A5wGdVzGPH_pHf9PyV/edit#heading=h.26in1rg
Sharon Leu:  The test of your bun pay attention to you to make 
  you a happy New Year everyone so 2020 was to was fun and we had 
  an opportunity to estimate reset hosts a number of podcasts and I 
  think that our main goal at jmf is to connect the existence of 
  digital credentials to opportunities for advancement and in order 
  for that to happen there needs to be all of the three sort of 
  components of.
Sharon Leu:   Of this VC triangle which is a credential.
Sharon Leu:  It's helped by someone and it's used by someone else 
  and so we have been sort of chugging through those things by 
  actually I guess that's creating some incentives and the 
  structure around which all of you who are deeply involved in not 
  only the development of the standard itself but also the 
  implementation in a various a variety of products to be able to 
  say like Yes actually this works the way that we wrote it out in 
  the spec to do and so we first looked at the credential itself.
Sharon Leu:   Elf as a verifiable credentials like open badges 
  as.
Sharon Leu:  And then the issuing to a variety of wallets and 
  receiving as well as from a variety of credential issuers and I 
  think looking into this year we're exploring a number of 
  different formats than to connect it with the third thing which 
  is a verification and more than green check mark the actual 
  utility of the digital credential itself so stay tuned for some 
  details and I think we'll have an opportunity at a later time to 
  discuss what we think is you know are some options.
Sharon Leu:   For how to pursue this.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you so much Sharon perfect so for those 
  of you unfamiliar with just the general concept of a plugfest it 
  is incredibly important in this ecosystem and it's part of the 
  reason why we were very eager to get involved and help Sharon and 
  her team out anyway we were on a lot of Standards which is 
  fantastic but as I think as everybody who's ever worked with or 
  led development team knows that it's even though their standards 
  and wallets.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Verifiers are implementing to a specification.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  You can't you can't make any statements of 
  confidence about verifiability until you actually fire it up and 
  pass some credentials from wallet wallet or from issuer to a 
  wallet and it has been incredibly educational and a lot of a lot 
  of friction a lot of let's just say a lot of development teams 
  had read verify credentials back and all of the number of 
  cryptography sweets and protocols and all of the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   The sort of.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Asians around everything that we're talking 
  about this past year and there's been a lot of theories 
  development and just incredible successes from the from the 
  plugfest like we for for the first time in the educational 
  Community specifically and in such a wide variety of wallets from 
  web-based and Native mobile apps server-side and client-side we 
  saw.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Saw credentials even in simpler terms.
<naomi> *And to better explain "Cluster": Cluster is Velocity 
  Network Foundation's term for facilitated groups of Members 
  interested in driving adoption in a particular sector/geography, 
  but the scope of work is really determined by the participating 
  Members... its about planning, information-sharing, forming 
  partnerships, aiding implementations, and we anticipate a few 
  events to educate, for the Ed Cluster, specifically, I'd like 
  ties to the greater ecosystem, but all that is TBD... it begins 
  with our exploratory meetings, so will share some information so 
  everyone can consider joining us.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  As usual stuff that looked really easy in the 
  demos hides so much development activity and heavy lifting in the 
  background so anyways highly take a look I highly encourage 
  everyone to take a look at the black vest themselves the demo 
  videos at the retrospective blog posts that some people have 
  posted and if you are involved in implementing their 50 
  credentials in education anyway either as a wallet.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Ella per employee.
<sharon_leu> Reach out anytime: sleu@jff.org.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Issuer or verifier highly encourage you to get 
  involved in the next plugfest those pluck system of three that is 
  coming up sometime this year so stay tuned or reach out to Sharon 
  for details so just as a last couple of details plugfest number 
  one was a we decided to start out with a real easy problem which 
  is credential display.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   If you somehow get.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Can everyone display an open badges version 3 
  formatted verifiable credential in recognizable ways so we had a 
  number of required Fields just really basic stuff who's the 
  issuer the name of the credential the achievement and can we just 
  see some credentials up on people's wallets.
<manu_sporny> Sharon, estimated start date for Plugfest 3? :) -- 
  I'll put myself on queue to ask.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Number two had focused on issuing and so we 
  put together a cohort of a bunch of issuers and a bunch of 
  wallets and each implementer had to work with two different 
  pieces of software so if your wallet you have to work with two 
  different issuers if you want to share to do two different 
  Wallace that were not your own so again that was a lot of 
  exercising of credentials and we.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Not know in the the tribal credential space 
  they're currently three different sort of broad camps of 
  specifications of how do you pass how do you issue while it's in 
  the credentials so we have the proper credentials API and 
  credential Handler API camp we have the open it you connect 
  family of specifications and we have the did conversion to family 
  specification so and then within each each camp.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  We're demonstrating interoperability between 
  them.
<sharon_leu> @Manu - hope to kick it off Q1, but now details yet. 
  some of this depends on what is the point of interop we settle 
  on.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Talk about some of the standards that we've 
  been focused on in this past year the there's been a lot of 
  activity and a lot of heavy lifting in standardizing the data 
  model of the credential envelope so the open badges line of 
  specifications is one of the one of the oldest running.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Project and specifications in this community 
  there's been a lot of open badges issued a lot of universities 
  have been issuing open badges version 1 and 2 credentials so big 
  existing ecosystem and fairly recently IMS Global which is now 
  one edtech a another standards body.
<nate_otto_(he/him)> I think the 1EdTech CLR "Candidate Final 
  Public" will be published within a couple days. Staff have the 
  "all clear", but maybe don't have the publication location ready 
  yet.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I decided to update the open badges 
  specification to version 3 to use the w3c verifiable credential 
  data model for the envelope so open badges are OBD three as we 
  refer to them he is takes the w3c verifiable credential envelope 
  and provide some more constraints about what goes inside the 
  envelope it defines number of fields number of.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Of achievements.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Things like horses what sometimes referred to 
  as micro credentials so there's a lot of lot of fields on a lot 
  of definitions about specifically the payload of the credentials 
  and education space so we think this is a very important spec in 
  the space that everybody should be familiar with.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   So as.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> OB3 and CLR2 include CTDL 
  terms for achievement types
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Is please check out the spec if you're 
  familiar with something reach out to the chairs and will refer to 
  you will refer you to people to reach out add one edtech at the 
  actual working group that is working on this so if open badges 
  has to do with a single credential CLR 2.0 comprehensive learner 
  record has to do with collections of credentials so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   So these are.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> this connects the credentials 
  w/ semantic interoperability for the meaning of the achievements
Dmitri Zagidulin:  2002 10 A comprehensive record of Learners 
  career so these are your transcripts or your entire educational 
  career so multiple transcripts all the courses that you've taken 
  achievements papers so it's a definitely a kitchen sink sort of 
  standard and as we're going to talk about in upcoming slides it 
  is a slightly different data model and slightly different 
  approach to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   To transcripts.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And learner records then then what the 
  European Union is taking with their EBS I initiative or AB c-- so 
  one of the one of the things we hope to do in this coming year is 
  to highlight the similarities and differences in approaches that 
  Europe and the more sort of North America Centric.
https://1edtech.github.io/openbadges-specification/ob_v3p0.html#org.1edtech.ob.v3p0.achievementtype.class
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Lar 2.0 standard that's emerging but anyways 
  so after a lot of work on open badges version 3 and and it got a 
  chance to be exercised a bit in jmf plug fests as well as the 
  work is he wanted Tech working groups the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Will be.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Went out for.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I forget what the exact terminology wanted 
  Tech uses but basically for Community input and testing so the 
  spec is almost ready candidate release that's says right there so 
  encourage everyone take a glance through the specs if you're 
  developing credentials in education.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Feel free.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Use the Json schema and the contacts that 
  comes with it take a look at some of the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Conformance testing that wanna deck provides 
  and is always reach out to us with any questions.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah so you're just real quick there's going 
  to be one of the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  One of the small handful of key data model 
  standards around which we see the educational that proper 
  credentials space sort of rallying around this and the Eds I 
  series of specifications.
<simone_ravaioli_(vc_edu)> Here it is again: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1XrrXHcQI3_M_VMgeSyVloJ0z6jrZHhDKiqRNM3Lw0TE/edit#slide=id.g1c82cadbcc6_0_88
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right so let's talk about some of the 
  standards related calls that we have this year we had a dids 101 
  call in the summer of last year and I'm gonna be slate sending 
  out the slide deck for this to the mailing list so that you can 
  read through the transcript and listen to the recordings and look 
  at the slides if there's a topic that you missed and that you're 
  interested in so we had the EBS I.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Folks common present on.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Did I've seen methods version 1 and 2 as well 
  as the issuer trust model.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And I'm going to come back to talking about 
  issuer trust models and known verified issuers in a bit because 
  that's also an interesting topic so yeah so European Union's an 
  AB c-- is it's attempting to standardize around this did AB c-- 
  standard and a number of verifiable credential data model 
  profiles that's that's around it.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   We had a number of Community show.
<simone_ravaioli_(vc_edu)> Gataca, Walt.ID, EQAR shared on EBSI 
  and Trust Models
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Case calls starting with our friends at 
  credential engine which this task force Works closely with and if 
  Deb's on the call if you wanted to say a few words about some of 
  the works that credential engine did this past year.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Yeah sure thanks I also just 
  put in the chat the the fact that ob3 and CLR to include CTL for 
  the credential transparency description language for achievement 
  types so that's an important piece of work that many of us did 
  together this year other things are that we were on the the 
  leadership team working with the.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  national governors.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Association skills driven 
  States Ellie our cohort there were 12 States participated in that 
  cohort for Learning and exploration all 12 of those States 
  expressed a strong interest in moving forward with Ellie are 
  implementations but not all of them have the resources to do that 
  at that time at this time seven states are moving forward 
  actively in.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  23 in a next phase.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Is implementing lers at the 
  state level so that's going to be I think a big a big push 
  forward in this calendar year for for lers and and then a 
  specific thing at credential engine besides our broader support 
  for this work to specific things one is we've developed an LR 
  action guide.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine):  that goes through.
<kaliya_identitywoman> can you post the link in the chat please
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Understanding engaging 
  analyzing implementing and sustaining the next version of that 
  guide is coming out today and I'll put a link in the chat and the 
  minute we also convened an Advisory Group that produced some very 
  detailed guidance on using CDL in the alignment field of open 
  badges.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): In conjunction with that thanks 
  to Nate Auto were also piloting this month releasing as soon as 
  possible a badge publishing tool that makes it easier to publish 
  badges to the registry and to include links in the alignment 
  field so lot of work on this front in 2022 and looking forward to 
  really seeing a lot of this work coming into fruition and even 
  scale and 2023.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Fantastic thank you so much Debbie and we 
  really look forward to seeing for you to join us on another V CH 
  you call this year and show us what the publishing tool looks 
  like and some of the work around that.
Deb_Everhart_(Credential_Engine): Be happy to thanks.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Fantastic yeah so we we think that the sum of 
  the databases and schemas that credential engine working groups 
  are working on are also going to be really important to the 
  verifiable credential education space so as always I'm going to 
  keep saying this highly encourage everyone to read some of the 
  documentation be familiar with the concepts so that you can.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Use a to eat enriched the data.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  If I wouldn't show ecosystems.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Next up we have I so we have the topic of 
  displaying credentials and this is going to be another Focus 
  topic this year.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> suggest that plugfest 3 
  include demonstrating linked open data in CTDL in the alignments, 
  so that the interoperability includes semantic meaning
Dmitri Zagidulin:  We had paper that some of the members of this 
  task force has been working on at this past rebooting web of 
  trust that has to do with so how you.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> NGA LER cohort 
  https://www.nga.org/projects/skills-driven-state-community-of-practice/
Dmitri Zagidulin:  How do you specify rendering and display hints 
  from the issuer to any sort of software that has to deal with 
  verifiable credentials such as wallets verifiers and others one 
  of the sort of subtopics of that is okay so we have these 
  verifiable these digital verifiable credentials but what happens 
  when they need to be printed out on paper and what happens when 
  what's the best ways to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   To send it around.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I'll for actors that are the just don't have 
  that are not familiar with verify the credentials that don't have 
  verifier and wallet software available or even know what that is 
  and so one of the things that we talked about that I think James 
  Short Round And and his team over at Masters University.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> LER action guide (this is the 
  content to be published as a new version later today) 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/19vjr2IOqvhN6-d22PrGJCx2up_1K_O-nWDgG0hdx5OU/edit#heading=h.ngky1dkt9jtn
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Discussed on the call is what are some of the 
  ways that we can use PDFs.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  To transfer credentials around tractors 
  unfamiliar with the ecosystem that's still usable right so 
  everybody knows how to email or send PDFs in general and every 
  knows how to print them out the interesting use case that 
  McMasters students have used is using verifiable credentials as 
  on On the Border meaning if your student entering into Canada you 
  have to present for certain types of visas you have to present 
  proof of your.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Your acceptance to the university.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> Badge publishing guidance 
  (using CTDL for alignments) 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vBmVd_t_514NmrLb3hWGwzEUteAaNuREwro7DaEIaqU/edit#heading=h.i33feeiez3el
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Canada and Sonic Masters was using verifiable 
  credentials printed out as PDFs in a format that is a random 
  Border guard unfamiliar with their fiber credentials can still 
  use and verify so they're they're doing an interesting 
  implementation where not only is the are the Prudential Fields 
  sort of printed out as a traditional letter or form onto a piece 
  of paper but they also embed QR code that can be.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Be verified with any sort of QR code scanner.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That goes to a verifier software hosted by 
  Masters anyways really interesting topic and we'll be coming back 
  to it for another round of discussions as the standard ways of 
  doing this start to firm up.
<kaliya_identitywoman> QR Codes on paper are VERY dangerous - 
  they are entirely copiable - we are not taking this into account 
  - 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gkQu-mJP1ZFKXW5hEzp2S3-veGHQZNcKwbGZVaB27F8/edit#heading=h.amu2t9onax2d
Dmitri Zagidulin:  We had a presentation from one of our 
  community members do Walla who are doing really interesting 
  things in Africa and Europe with regards to credential wallets.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> credential and skill 
  transparency overview 
  https://credentialengine.org/credential-transparency/
Dmitri Zagidulin:  How heard from velocity now look foundation 
  and some of the work they're working on I believe that's what 
  further clusters and working groups is what Naomi mentioned our 
  early on this call.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Number of conversation about credential status 
  meaning how do you revoke credentials if verifier knows that the 
  digitally the digital signature is okay and the credentials not 
  expired and all the business rules check out how do you know that 
  whatever credential has not been revoked by the issuer and this 
  is one of the specs from that conversation are are about which we 
  talked about is the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   VC status list 2021.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The beginning of the call that is now been 
  taken up by the verifiable credentials 2.0 working groups so more 
  more work on standardizing that is going to be happening this 
  year so very important topic of revocation for us we had a number 
  of sort of retrospectives of workshops that the community has 
  held this year including internet identity Workshop that clear.
<davidc> I raised this revocation topic on the spec in December
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Mentioned early on this call that is coming up 
  in April as well as rebooting web of trust paper writing Workshop 
  some of the topics that we discussed in more detail the 
  challenges that implementers are around educational space so I've 
  been coming up against is of course the topic of Internet 
  internationalization we have a lot of companies not just from the 
  US but from Europe and Asia Pacific and I'll.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   A lot of them are simply legally required to 
  support multiple.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  In their credential so how how do we make that 
  happen so we talked about the difference between localization and 
  internationalization we talked about what the provisions that the 
  verifiable credential data model spec offers in terms of 
  translation internationalization talk about some of the 
  challenges and some of the solutions in the space so this is an 
  sort of Evergreen topic that we may want to touch on again in 
  this coming year.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   There's an issue.
David Chadwick: 
  https://github.com/w3c/vc-status-list-2021/issues/35
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Duplicate credentials which is not something 
  that I've really thought about until I got involved in Hands-On 
  development of an actual wallet and so we had very practical 
  questions from users of okay I have already have a credential in 
  here but if I scan this QR code I got another one that's exactly 
  the same and shoot it appear twice on the list should I be given 
  a prompt that's like hey you already have this credential.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   But there was a.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Good Falafel discussion of so what does it 
  actually mean to have two instances of a credential that are the 
  same and like what if their identity the same or what if they're 
  the same except for the issuance date or the expiration date so a 
  lot of interesting like low-level detail conversation happening 
  around that and eats.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   It's fascinating to me to see.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Different approaches that wallets take around 
  that some that allow.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Duplicate credentials some flag them as an 
  error some presented as a choice to the user and so on.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  We had a great discussion there is a long 
  thread on the larger credentials community group around the 
  opening to connect family of specs and their applications to 
  wallets and there's a long and heated thread by a lot of a lot of 
  actors in the community talking about it and so we had just sort 
  of an explanation an explainer call around it here on VC in the 
  VC Edgewood.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Task force where we tried to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Explain some of the controversy and some of 
  the some of the points are being presented by both sides and 
  what's interesting is that a lot of changes in the specifications 
  I've come from from that discussion in the to the opening to 
  connect family of specs so for example the requirements for 
  client registration in order to be four walls to be used with 
  verifiable credential have been.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Have been made optional.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Open it you can expects and this discussion 
  highlighted The crucial importance on the topic of wallet 
  selection.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  In in verifiable credential both EMD education 
  space but really in the DC space in general which is the moment 
  one of the things holding us all back in wallets is the lack of a 
  wallet selection mechanism which leads to either a screen full of 
  buttons like issued to the DCCC wallet and issue to the digital 
  bizarre wallet and issue to such and such wallet so either we 
  have that what's known as a mask our.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Mm or we find.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Action mechanism such as the credential 
  Handler bi Wala chooser.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So and while selection is something that again 
  we've seen progress in the community some hopeful progress in 
  terms of example the Google Chrome team is doing some work on 
  potentially integrating while its election in their up-and-coming 
  fed CM specification that's being built into the browser's we've 
  had a number of conversations with the FED CM community in terms 
  of how they.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   They can use the or how they can work.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Choppy credential Handler API wallet Chooser 
  there's also a great presentation at this past IW from the from 
  Fido to Alliance and and about fighter web Keys sorry web passes.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And how that interplay is with wallet 
  selection so again.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I'll need to connect with wallets and 
  specifically while selection is going to be another huge topic 
  for the Slime Cup coming year.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   I will.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Number of president conversations about the 
  intersection of their fabric credentials and the sort of broader 
  web 3.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Tag or means that if you will which generally 
  is taken to mean blockchains and a Nifty is and some of the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Summer Technologies from that community so we 
  had a great presentation from disco XYZ walking us through some 
  of the bridge building that is happening in that space similarly 
  on a similar topic.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Three slash web five we had a another 
  conversation on.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Soulbound tokens on how how that intersects 
  with this intersects with decentralized identifiers and 
  verifiable credentials what the what those things actually mean 
  and whether it's useful set of tools for our community had a 
  presentation from get coin passport again sort of in the 
  blockchain cryptocurrency space but also potentially really 
  useful in.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So what are what are some of the things that 
  will be focusing on in 2023 what do we have to look forward to so 
  we're going to continue our conversations on topics and use cases 
  we.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Continue sort of Community Education on some 
  of the standard emerging standards apis stumbling blocks what are 
  the challenges in onboarding new students and new.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Organizations in the education ecosystem look 
  forward to a lot of demos more announcements of community events 
  and workshops and more in-depth conversation.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I including just just to give a sneak preview 
  as I mentioned credential display progress in verifiable 
  credential revocation report outs on the work that the VC 2.0 
  working group is doing the discussions on credential chaining and 
  cryptographic linking of credential of separate credentials 
  together.
<phil_l_(p1)> Topic for 2023 - APIs to wallets to add services to 
  it.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Work in the obv three and CLR to it I do 
  groups and much more so I think that that concludes the prepared 
  slides I'd love to hear from the community questions topic 
  suggestions that sort of thing how is our house like you doing 
  here on of go ahead.
<simone_ravaioli_(vc_edu)> Well noted, P1 !
Manu Sporny:  This this question that that was great Dimitri 
  thank you for the year in review it was great to see so many good 
  things happen last year and its really feel set us up to do even 
  greater things this year I have two questions the first one is to 
  share in lieu around the jmf plugfest number three in anyone else 
  like you Dimitri or as ammonia.
Manu Sporny:   Carry that might be.
<naomi> *Great question! Would love an early scope!
Manu Sporny:  Planning it do we have a timeline or a road map yet 
  or are we still trying to figure out you know when when that's 
  going to start and then the second question is what's the 
  plugfest going to be about my you know are my personal 
  expectation was verification like okay we've issued these 
  credentials into people's digital wallets we've got a 
  demonstration of all these wallets that are now holding these 
  credentials how do we then deliver those for.
Manu Sporny:   To be verified at a verifier you know site do we 
  have any.
Manu Sporny:  Further thoughts on what podcast three is going to 
  focus on.
Sharon Leu:  Okay I'll jump in quickly and say I have I feel like 
  we have not made a decision on this but we would love to have I 
  think more extensive consultation before we do this because I 
  think even though it's true that issuance of credentials could 
  have been anything I feel like we sort of struck on the right 
  point of interoperability on that but it's like verification and 
  I think in the a lot of the edgy use cases document you'll see 
  that like relying on.
Sharon Leu:   Parties are also.
Sharon Leu:  Fication process as well and I think that we haven't 
  come to like there are a lot of really good ideas for what we 
  could what could be the point of interoperability but I think 
  that I want to spend the next the rest of this month doing some 
  consultations with this group in with individuals and you know 
  other people to really decide on what is the point of 
  interoperability because I think that will determine both the 
  partners that we need to begin.
Sharon Leu:   Lee recruiting as well as the level of.
Sharon Leu:  And that will again lead to like how much time 
  should we allocate towards us so I think that the answer to your 
  question is I don't know yet but we hope to kick it off sometime 
  in the first quarter for work maybe for the next couple of 
  quarters after that that's the rough timeline that I feel like is 
  the best I can offer you at this point except to say that please 
  do reach out to me because I want to talk to everyone about this 
  like where we think are key leverage points and.
Sharon Leu:   Etc things.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> I'd be happy to be included in 
  the discussion
<phil_l_(p1)> Topic  for 2023: when is a new data model needed 
  and design guidance for them
Sharon Leu:  And I think that maybe we've sort of low-key 
  discussed having a group call on one of these Monday meetings to 
  really run through that once we have a better sense of it so 
  sorry for the non answer.
<manu_sporny> "We don't know yet" is a perfectly fine answer.
<manu_sporny> I was definitely hoping it wasn't: "We start in 1 
  week!"
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you so much thanks Sharon and Deb and 
  everyone else in chat will definitely put out a call here in the 
  VC edu group for those interested in in the conversation of those 
  interested in helping plan the next iteration of the plugfest 
  Marty I believe.
<phil_l_(p1)> (that is, for education and training focused data 
  models)
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> semantic interoperability 
  could at least be "extra credit" :-)
Marty Reed:  Thanks to me tree I did step away for just a minute 
  so if this came up but on the putting on my digital credentials 
  work group chair for one edtech I did get an update from one 
  edtech just a few minutes ago as far as the CLR to candidate 
  final public and so at the earliest I believe it'll be the end of 
  this week that will be able to.
Marty Reed:   To put that.
Marty Reed:  Out there for others to check it out but for sure 
  this month will see a CLR to Canada tunnel public out there.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Fantastic thank you so much Marty and and 
  we'll one volunteers to come and present CLR 2.0 overview to this 
  group here so looking at you and anybody else you can pull in.
Marty Reed:  Yep go do it.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Awesome one thing I wanted to also quickly 
  mention is our one really important upcoming topic that there was 
  a recent paper on but also that I think we've all bumped up 
  against in implementation is this notion of known or verified 
  issuers the thing that we roughly refer to as trust Registries 
  which is so I have this credential from a student.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Everything checks out.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The digital signature is fine everything looks 
  good but who actually issued this yes we have a digital signature 
  but is the institution who is she this what kind of 
  accreditations does it have is it actually empowered by I don't 
  know they're the government to issue by fellow credentials and so 
  on so basically this notion of so great we have this 
  infrastructure how do we identify the issuer's how do we know 
  which issue as we trust.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   This is a huge topic and so there's a number 
  of.
<xander_-_asu/pocket> NY�
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Nathan Tha specifications centered around so 
  how do we identify issuers and verifiers and one of the one of 
  the papers that recently Arisen and is going to be adopted as a 
  hopefully adopted as work item in the accreditors community group 
  is this notion of known credentials sorry known issue or lists so 
  something that we're hoping to implement a DC and I know there's 
  been interest from other wallet implementers so it's definitely.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> information in CTDL about 
  organizations can provide part of the structure for transparency 
  about issuers
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Be an important topic coming.
Phil_L_(P1): Yes thank you can you hear me okay I put some things 
  in chats for consideration for next year but I think a couple of 
  them have to do with guidance around the design of apis for 
  services that actually interact with wallets and in that regard 
  the topic that was mentioned by Colin earlier in terms of using 
  AI to facilitate.
Phil_L_(P1):  eight construction of.
https://credreg.net/ctdl/handbook#organization
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> including QA organizations
Phil_L_(P1): Comes to mind in the term the sense of an AI agent 
  interacting with an individual's wallet but also Marty and I have 
  talked also about a wallet that is able to reach out and 
  interrogate skill credential skill credential Frameworks and 
  competency taxonomy he's on behalf of the holder so the issue of 
  apis for wallets and the second is more is sort of more general 
  which is.
Phil_L_(P1):  at what point what kind of guidance.
Phil_L_(P1): To be there for new training and education 
  credentials in a sense the work that's been done by one Ed Tech 
  has taken the general wave API excuse me the general data model 
  for VC 1.1 and then use that as a framework for the ways you've 
  mentioned before OB B 3 and C LR V 2 with its own context files 
  and additional modifications but at what point does the VC 1.1 
  data model actually.
Phil_L_(P1):  regenerate a family of additional credentials 
  supporting.
Phil_L_(P1): Use of Education and Training and are there 
  guidelines are constraints that we should consider around that 
  thanks.
<phil_l_(p1)> The LinkedClaims credential comes to mind
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks Phil both really excellent topics yeah 
  there's a lot of friction that we need to reduce as a community 
  for Dev team sitting down to actually Implement education by 
  fiber credential and the what to do with data model when to reach 
  for existing specs and ecosystems like credential engine and when 
  to design new ones that's definitely conversation that we'll need 
  to have.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   Anyone else.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Sigh have any comments or questions.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Eight go ahead oh I'm sorry C on its the money 
  was next apologies Simona go ahead.
Simone_Ravaioli_(VC_EDU): Quickly given the focus that we put on 
  bootstrapping open badges 3 with the plugfest I think it wouldn't 
  make sense to liaise more with one attack and possibly talking 
  about this at their digital credential Summit that is coming up 
  and the February I don't see any.
Simone_Ravaioli_(VC_EDU):  trace of that in.
<sharon_leu> Simone - I'm working on a session with Marty.
Simone_Ravaioli_(VC_EDU): I'm so we can take this offline with 
  whoever is interested and more generally I think just continuing 
  to Foster the adoption of this new version of the spec which is 
  radically different and it's inflection point would be important 
  for this community and maybe this is something that will do 
  continue to do with breakfast 32 stuff like that.
<sharon_leu> For the 1EdTech meeting.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Wonderful thank you that's a great Point Nate 
  go ahead.
Nate_Otto_(he/him): Great thanks yeah I just wanted to thank you 
  for a great presentation and a wonderful past year thank you 
  Dimitri and to everyone who has contributed to this space 
  especially in the implementation area as we know there's lots of 
  different options for the various different layers of the tech 
  stack for using verifiable credentials and it's fun to see the 
  convergence on some common patterns where we can be successful 
  for some of those options as we try and put some of our services.
Nate_Otto_(he/him):  has in production.
<simone_ravaioli_(vc_edu)> Great to hear Sharon !  That is 
  covered then. Happy to be involved if needed.
Nate_Otto_(he/him): Them it's going to be essential to work 
  together in this new year through plugfest through conferences 
  like what Simone I just mentioned plus 12 that and through direct 
  collaboration between different developers and vendors so looking 
  forward to a great year of working with you all figuring out what 
  the successful patterns are for our users to be able to get 
  credentials into their wallets and from their wallets to the 
  places where they will make a difference in their lives one other 
  point of collaboration.
Nate_Otto_(he/him):  that I'm working on right now is the one Ed 
  Tech implementation.
<simone_ravaioli_(vc_edu)> Thanks Nate !
Nate_Otto_(he/him): The open badges three nclr aspects this is 
  open for comment on one at X get Hub and would love some comments 
  and their thanks shout out to Jen who put in some great comments 
  just a couple days ago we can keep working together on 
  documentation a but maybe even more importantly on actual 
  implementations.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you so much Nate and thank you for all 
  your help this past year and looking forward to collaborating.
<phil_l_(p1)> Link to that guide Nate?
https://github.com/1EdTech/openbadges-specification/pull/501 Impl 
  guide for OB3
Dmitri Zagidulin:  All right so we have just a couple minutes 
  left till the top of the hour once again welcome everyone oh yeah 
  Nate if you can paste a link in the chat to that implementation 
  guide yeah so happy New Year everyone we have a lot of 
  interesting topics up-and-coming lot of work to do in the 
  education space looking forward looking forward to working with 
  you all thanks all.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   And there's the link to.
<sharon_leu> 2023 is going to be fun!
<colin_reynolds,_ed_design_lab> Thanks all! Happy New Year!
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Guide in the chat and I'll send out these 
  slides.
<simone_ravaioli_(vc_edu)> Thank you Dimitri !!!
<naomi> Thank you!
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Oh Monica had real quick oh I see I see I see 
  thanks bile.
<deb_everhart_(credential_engine)> Happy New Year!
<julie_keane> See all soon
