[2023-12-05T18:31:40.230Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-12-05T18:32:06.314Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-12-05T18:32:27.052Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2023-12-05T18:34:04.421Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-12-05T18:34:38.363Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-12-05T18:34:38.363Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-12-05T18:35:03.386Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2023-12-05T18:35:07.247Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-12-05T18:35:12.304Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2023-12-05T18:35:20.209Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-12-05T18:35:25.761Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/595
[2023-12-05T18:35:29.880Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2023-12-05T18:36:05.375Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/605
[2023-12-05T18:37:51.254Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: interop week, 595, good to go? yes

605, russell?
[2023-12-05T18:37:59.662Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	russell: ready to merge
[2023-12-05T18:38:30.513Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2023-12-05T18:38:38.775Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/913
[2023-12-05T18:39:26.807Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: any objections to merging 605?

merging

brings us to vocab, 3, all mine

first one, 913, ordering so goes value, unit; also more consistent titles

doing this bc, sometimes looks a bit much with all the hierarchies, so flattening
[2023-12-05T18:40:03.436Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: this is supposed to be generic commercial invoice

old one was generic val; with chains you're doing, where would val go?
[2023-12-05T18:40:11.214Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: only changing title, not json key
[2023-12-05T18:41:41.511Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: approvals on 913? objections?

merging

914, limits amt of notify parties to 3. common limitation to make it fit on paper. looking to apply same limit, and render docs a bit nicer.
[2023-12-05T18:42:06.046Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/915
[2023-12-05T18:43:30.306Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: objections? merging

last, power of atourney, 915. question abt linked data term, found a great term.

approvals on 915? we have 2, merging

trace interop,any particular issues?
[2023-12-05T18:43:31.617Z]	<nis>	ack patrick
[2023-12-05T18:43:50.660Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/589
[2023-12-05T18:43:57.267Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	patrick: on aligning workflows, 589?
[2023-12-05T18:44:58.395Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: from august... for some reason ben asked mahmoud to comment

oh, talked abt it in sept, wasn't a lot of interest into investing in this

mahmoud pinged you to get mavennets input, is this relevant?
[2023-12-05T18:45:50.409Z]	<Orie>	I have to drop, I suggest that issue be closed.
[2023-12-05T18:45:59.892Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: manu's point is that this is already really close, from what I'm reading of workflows as a concept, same across both apis. So not sure what's an actionable item.
[2023-12-05T18:46:41.647Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	patrick: so very similar but there will be differences in the short term?
[2023-12-05T18:47:09.883Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: still did auth based? we're large moving away from that, to oauth. is that what we'd be aligning to here?
[2023-12-05T18:48:16.681Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	patrick: as I understand workflows, whenever external party wants to engage, workflow based on applications, this is how exchange starts

Believe vc-api oauth also
[2023-12-05T18:49:42.141Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: can read the def of how we use workflows. can think of as way to combine diff presentations,m diff parties, into same workflow

presentation oriented

so what's action being requested here?
[2023-12-05T18:50:25.662Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	patrick: I'll leave a comment here to discuss, if still open in a few weeks close it

maybe this issue should be more on other side
[2023-12-05T18:50:48.235Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-12-05T18:50:58.759Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/531
[2023-12-05T18:51:17.452Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: appreciate that you raised and that you volunteered

Any other items to highlight?

Normal order then, least recently updated

mahmoud, 531?
[2023-12-05T18:52:13.008Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	I have 10/open 21, all modifications to readme

goal is to get all done before end of year, workfload will be easier next couple of weeks
[2023-12-05T18:52:27.938Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/482
[2023-12-05T18:52:46.708Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2023-12-05T18:52:57.910Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/543
[2023-12-05T18:53:04.434Z]	<nis>	ack manu
[2023-12-05T18:54:58.357Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	manu: saw you were talking abt issue 539, thought I'd provide some background

in vc-api didn't want to stomp on anything in traceability. Have concept of workflows, pretty aligned. One, any immediate "no don't do that"? Two, continue down that path aligning the two?

Say "yeah the concepts aligned conceptually"; ideally aligned technically but need to spec that out

So ask, do you have any great concerns? Not exclusively did auth based
[2023-12-05T18:57:30.703Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: volunteer to connect the two, patrick already did. I think we could spend next 5mins trying to do that verbally

Just outlined to patrick how workflows work in trace

If start in instances, we can connect multiple traceable presentations, potentially diff holders. in logistics, think of it as belonging to same shipment or grouping of docs together. Def is more to guide you on requirements

Additive, can have multiple workflow defs. Could have intro into the us + steel products, combo of types of VPs is combo of what's defined in those workflow defs
[2023-12-05T18:59:02.448Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	q+
[2023-12-05T18:59:13.652Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	manu: yes, highly aligned with vc-api.

Difference here, you're talking abt from diff holders, we're thinking of it as stepping one holder through the process

Then you're walking entity through presentations. Then verifier asks some stuff from them. typical flow is, verifier asks / holder provides; verifier says done? holder says I need something else from you

That's what we're thinking, but doesn't preclude your stuff
[2023-12-05T18:59:14.510Z]	<nis>	ack mahmoud
[2023-12-05T18:59:31.789Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: makes sense, but where's workflow instance or def sent? equivalent to traceable presentation?
[2023-12-05T19:00:00.957Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	manu: out of scope, undefined, implementations can define
[2023-12-05T19:00:12.705Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: might want to look at how post them on trace vocab
[2023-12-05T19:00:36.753Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	I can do the minutes
[2023-12-05T19:00:47.689Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	patrick: writing comment on issue; propose we leave it open til end of year
[2023-12-05T19:00:57.415Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: great thanks
