[2020-04-13T15:13:27.530Z]	<ottonomy>	...will be present once the bluetooth can be wrestled into letting me have audio...
[2020-04-13T15:13:58.925Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Apr/0082.html
[2020-04-13T15:14:13.020Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
[2020-04-13T15:14:18.669Z]	<gabec>	present+
[2020-04-13T15:14:45.650Z]	<stuartf>	present+
[2020-04-13T15:14:57.855Z]	<AlanD>	present+
[2020-04-13T15:15:15.081Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-04-13T15:15:28.171Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2020-04-13T15:15:28.729Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Hello everyone ! Looking forward to today's call ... a nice #EasterEgg in the OpenBadges spec ?
[2020-04-13T15:15:48.634Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-04-13T15:15:49.693Z]	<SGallant>	present+
[2020-04-13T15:16:02.356Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-04-13T15:16:15.545Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-04-13T15:16:53.133Z]	<lauraj>	present+
[2020-04-13T15:18:37.544Z]	<kimhd>	q+ yancy
[2020-04-13T15:18:45.805Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-04-13T15:18:59.742Z]	<kimhd>	yancy: what yancy said
[2020-04-13T15:19:41.747Z]	<kimhd>	ack yancy
[2020-04-13T15:19:43.693Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-04-13T15:20:01.936Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: Simone_Ravaioli
[2020-04-13T15:20:05.630Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: introduce the agenda and speakers
[2020-04-13T15:20:14.386Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2020-04-13T15:20:31.893Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: calling for introductions.
[2020-04-13T15:21:18.355Z]	<kimhd>	tayken
[2020-04-13T15:21:21.455Z]	<adamjlemmon_>	present+
[2020-04-13T15:21:52.206Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	tayken: Taylor Kendal Chief Program Officer at Learning Economy... involved in the ecosystem with similar work
[2020-04-13T15:22:38.015Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: DID support in Open Badges
[2020-04-13T15:22:39.547Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/IMSGlobal/openbadges-specification/issues/258#issuecomment-587805255
[2020-04-13T15:22:53.575Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd:  speaker Gabe Cohen from Workday and Nate Otto form Concentric Sky on a recent issue added to the Open Badges githup to add DID method to OB
[2020-04-13T15:26:25.085Z]	<ottonomy>	https://www.imsglobal.org/sites/default/files/Badges/OBv2p0Final/index.html
[2020-04-13T15:32:37.447Z]	<kimhd>	great intro, thanks Nate!
[2020-04-13T15:32:49.080Z]	<GeunHyung>	present+
[2020-04-13T15:32:49.370Z]	<ottonomy>	Proposal: https://github.com/IMSGlobal/openbadges-specification/issues/258
[2020-04-13T15:33:55.815Z]	<ottonomy>	gabec: The proposal liked in PDF from the Github Issue above is to add a DID-based identifier type to the list of profile identifier properties.
[2020-04-13T15:34:31.964Z]	<ottonomy>	gabec: A couple issues have been brought up as to how you include the DID; how you prove ownership of the DID. Nate has brought up some good points around how how this needs to be easy.
[2020-04-13T15:34:43.374Z]	<kimhd>	it looks like Simone got booted off the call
[2020-04-13T15:35:07.024Z]	<kimhd>	Oh, I see Nate's taking over. Would someone else mind scribing since Nate is co-presenting? it's very distracting
[2020-04-13T15:35:08.993Z]	<ottonomy>	gabec: One great tool available for us is the DIF Universal Resolver. That can get us access to the DID documents. We should next work on challenges for proof of control of a DID.
[2020-04-13T15:35:21.762Z]	<kimhd>	...to try to present and scribe :)
[2020-04-13T15:36:04.153Z]	<ottonomy>	gabec: This change would allow badges to be more closely tied into the decentralized world. There may be benefits to having badges issued to DIDs instead of issuers or telephone numbers. This moves the control slightly toward the learner, and opens up more opportunities in the future for that.
[2020-04-13T15:36:20.394Z]	<ottonomy>	gabec: We may find that DIDs have more longevity than emails or telephone numbers, as they are self-sovereign.
[2020-04-13T15:37:46.974Z]	<kimhd>	https://uniresolver.io/1.0/identifiers/did:work:2UUHQCd4psvkPLZGnWY33L
[2020-04-13T15:38:02.457Z]	<kimhd>	did:work:2UUHQCd4psvkPLZGnWY33L
[2020-04-13T15:39:39.908Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	I am back can continue to scribe...
[2020-04-13T15:40:21.693Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Kimhd: ... if we made the OB Data Model udnerstand DID, that would be a new instruction for implementers to use DID resolvers...
[2020-04-13T15:40:40.738Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	kimhd: ... interested to hear from Nate
[2020-04-13T15:41:14.334Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	ottonomy:  real issue is usability - how canwe make this identities visible to users, resvolvable by. users and implementers
[2020-04-13T15:41:49.222Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	ottonomy: the issue and recipient and consumer inspector should be on the same page to understand the pointer to the individual and for the individual to approve that
[2020-04-13T15:42:38.504Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	ottonomy: increase capabilites of verifying that the individual control that string .. whether it is a DID or a URL...
[2020-04-13T15:46:28.076Z]	<tayken>	present+
[2020-04-13T15:49:25.196Z]	<kimhd>	DID SIOP: https://github.com/decentralized-identity/did-siop
[2020-04-13T15:50:00.258Z]	<kimhd>	did:work method: https://workday.github.io/work-did-method-spec/
[2020-04-13T15:50:16.114Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-method-registry/
[2020-04-13T15:53:48.576Z]	<kimhd>	Workday team presents a description of the Workday DID Resolver Method and a demo of the user-with-a-DID authentication process as it might be implemented by another partner in the task force
[2020-04-13T15:54:44.875Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to describe how pilot implementation might proceed in this task force when it's convenient
[2020-04-13T15:54:53.079Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	did work interesting did method to test out interoprability... idea: use workday's did process, something to prototype in this group... comments?
[2020-04-13T15:55:05.919Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-04-13T15:56:28.172Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	otto: to adopt changes to spec, need early implementers to try things out... this group might be avenue. lots of other implementers availalbe to try openbadges + SSI
[2020-04-13T15:57:29.102Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	in order to pursue proof of concepts, need some agreement on did methods that implementers want to try out
[2020-04-13T15:58:13.353Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_>	q+
[2020-04-13T15:59:51.925Z]	<kimhd>	Some assignee creates and presents an example credential that uses a DID for recipient identification that exemplifies the "Verifiable Credentials for Education" use case: recognition that a recipient has attained a particular "defined achievement", such as a Certificate (awarded on program completion)
[2020-04-13T16:00:28.913Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	interest in DID-web as well as workday's method... test out recipients using different did methods... testing authentication
[2020-04-13T16:00:38.688Z]	<kimhd>	Some assignee creates an alternate example set showing how two different issuers might recognize that a recipient has attained a level o mastery of a competency that is defined by a third party (this is not something that is well handled by the Open Badges spec as it currently stands).
[2020-04-13T16:01:15.033Z]	<kimhd>	ack Simone_Ravaioli_
[2020-04-13T16:01:17.937Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	kim: assumption that there is a learner wallet in order to try these out
[2020-04-13T16:02:04.454Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-04-13T16:02:06.785Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to ask about how a "agent" backpack-like platform would interface with a wallet application on a user device
[2020-04-13T16:02:20.317Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-04-13T16:03:27.542Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	badgr is service agent-type pattern... each user has an account, service acts on their behalf... another paradigm is wallet. case of DID authentication is perfect use case for 2 paradigms to work togehter (e.g. badgr account and wallet)
[2020-04-13T16:04:41.803Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	kim: idea of wallet... most think mobile app, but can also be web app/site. could demo both
[2020-04-13T16:06:03.438Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	Interest in doing both VC and Openbadges prototypes... (DID support in OB perhaps more feasible than VC in OB)
[2020-04-13T16:06:08.154Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_>	DIDs into OB2.2 is a clear, measurable and achievable objective
[2020-04-13T16:06:36.085Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-04-13T16:07:00.292Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	(FYI... gotta drop off in a few minutes for next meeting... new scribe needed if we run over)
[2020-04-13T16:07:41.336Z]	<ottonomy>	scribe: ottonomy
[2020-04-13T16:07:54.737Z]	<ottonomy>	kimhd: We'll revisit this topic in future meetings. We want to figure out a good plan so we can move forward.
[2020-04-13T16:08:04.922Z]	<ottonomy>	kimhd: We'll start talking about plans for that in future meetings. Thank you
