Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-01-18-vcapi/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-01-18-vcapi/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC API Task Force Transcript for 2022-01-18

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Jan/0137.html
Topics:
  1. Intros and Reintros
  2. Relevant Community Updates
  3. Pull Requests
  4. Issue Processing
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny, Orie Steele, Markus Sabadello, Mike Varley, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Manu Sporny, Joe Andrieu, Dmitri Zagidulin, Mike Prorock, Justin 
  Richer, Mike Varley, Adrian Gropper, Markus Sabadello, Juancho, 
  Eric Schuh, Kerri Lemoie, Brian Richter, Phil L (P1), Phil (T3), 
  TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), brentz, Brent 
  Zundel, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau Jr (via iPhone)

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Manu Sporny:  Alright hello everyone welcome to the VC API call 
  this is January 18th 2022.
Manu Sporny:  On the agenda today is just an agenda review which 
  is what we're doing right now introductions and reintroductions 
  if we need any we will then move on to relevant Community updates 
  spend five minutes on that look at to pull requests around 
  workflow apis and hope to try to at least have a tiny bit of 
  discussion there put 30 minutes to it but we can move on from it 
  if.
Manu Sporny:  I don't want to dwell on that and then finally 
  we'll be doing some issue processing as time allows and then any 
  other business folks one are there any updates or changes to the 
  agenda anybody want to talk about anything else today?
Manu Sporny:  Okay if not we'll go ahead and get started.

Topic: Intros and Reintros

Manu Sporny:  See first up on the agenda is our introductions and 
  reintroductions intros and reintros, is there anyone new on the 
  call or anyone that has a chance had a change that wants to give 
  us an update.

Topic: Relevant Community Updates

Manu Sporny:  Okay no introductions are reintroductions relevant 
  Community updates does anybody have anything that the group 
  should know about with respect to VC API or protocols or anything 
  in general happening in the in the API space around verifiable 
  credentials.
Manu Sporny:  All right no updates there just forgot to mention 
  that the verifiable credential 11 spec the final date to vote on 
  that is today if you have not voted in favor of publishing it as 
  an updated wreck please please do so it doesn't have a lot of 
  boats on it and for those of you that can see the votes you'll 
  see some very interesting commentary by a very big company.
Manu Sporny:  It's on a good track it's just, anyway take a look 
  -- 
  https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/33280/vc-11-2021-corrections/results
Manu Sporny:  Any other community updates before we move on?
Manu Sporny:  I guess it's worth mentioning that interrupts going 
  to be a big part of this year with respect to kind of be Capi in 
  some of the other stuff that we're doing in other spaces in I 
  expect us to probably have an interop discussion not next week 
  but the following week just to cover cover some interrupt things.

Topic: Pull Requests

Manu Sporny:  Dimitri I shared a link in the ccg minute sorry I 
  don't have it in front of me right now but you should be able to 
  find it in the Raw logs public logs there.
<manu_sporny> Define Workflow APIs - 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pull/255
Manu Sporny:  Right on to pull request so the first pull request 
  is about the workflow apis so just to remind everyone on the last 
  call we talked in the fair amount of detail about the 
  non-normative workflow API things it just you know the messages.
Manu Sporny:   You know going back and forth.
Manu Sporny:  Around credential refresh and how that could be 
  generalized this PR pull 255 covers actually let me go ahead and 
  share my screen here.
Manu Sporny:  This PR covers a realization of that API so it 
  actually defines it so PR 255 basically takes the non-normative 
  text that we had last time moves it into a new section on 
  workflows it adds two endpoints and defines them in open API 
  specification.
Manu Sporny:  It identifies that we're talking about 
  generalizations to the exacting to the existing VC API and then 
  it provides two diagrams one of them is the generic VCA Pi flow 
  this kind of back and forth showing how the workflow calls are 
  made so you basically request to start a workflow a verifiable.
Manu Sporny:  Issuer/Verifier can request  information for from 
  you in a way of interacting and then you respond back to that 
  with a verifiable presentation with the things that for example 
  the issuer asked for or the verifier asked for and then once the 
  receiving app that you sure the verifier processes the 
  information they let you know.
Manu Sporny:  How it went so they'll either give you a new 
  verifiable credential if you're refreshing or they'll say hey 
  thanks I got that data looks good to me or they'll kick back an 
  error or they'll say hey I need more information with you within 
  additional interaction request there so there's a generalized 
  flow in the spec now in that generalized flow is the exact same 
  thing that we have proposed in the refresh spec.
Manu Sporny:   Refresh is a specialization of the generalized 
  flow in the in the VC API PR that's here let's see let me see if 
  I can get a preview so the new section is here under workflows.
Manu Sporny:  There are two endpoints workflows the name and 
  start and then workflows in an active workflow ID and 
  presentations so you either start a workflow and then you're 
  asked to give it some data and you post the data at the 
  presentations and point in these two are just kind of like 
  works-in-progress the naming whether or not this is a design 
  pattern or an actual endpoint URL still to be determined the 
  interaction thing, here is the same one that you saw in the 
  previous screen.
Manu Sporny:  And then it's just got a whole bunch of you know it 
  has the examples of the thing that we talked about last time it 
  also talks about the start workflow here and it's got you know 
  Json schema on validating it and Response Center codes and things 
  of that nature so that's that PR 255 let me pause.
Manu Sporny:  Any questions or concerns I see Mike's provided 
  some feedback Marcus you provided some feedback and enough you'll 
  want to elaborate on that here.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Justin.
Justin Richer:  There we go so my main question with this is that 
  if that hey I need to get the user involved thing and a Marxist 
  comment I think it was starts to touch on this can be abstracted 
  in tough to be able to act as a jumping off point for a variety 
  of different systems because this it it very much feels like 
  WWW-Authenticate header style thing.
Justin Richer:  You're basically saying I can't fulfill this 
  request but here's the information that you need in order to go 
  do some to do a different protocol to fulfill the request that 
  you want right because it is it is about API access and that is 
  an API response and this I think from my perspective is where 
  Adrian's questions of meshing with things like GNAP really come 
  into play where things like you know did come messaging and stuff 
  really come into play is is in that part of the step.
Manu Sporny:  Yes that is absolutely correct in what you just 
  said is where the next PR picks up so the next PR talks about 
  interaction and bootstrapping and other protocols and you know I 
  can't do anything with you here you need to go over there style 
  interaction so that is not.
Manu Sporny:  The pr here is just kind of a general kind of 
  structure but I think your comments Justin apply more to like 
  interact if interact comes back and says I need you to go 
  somewhere else and do something else I think that's where the 
  majority of your comments apply if you just you know if all if 
  all the response then you can just respond.
Manu Sporny:  Clean that you know that could be the end of it.
Justin Richer:  So I would actually like to push back on that and 
  ask why that is a different thing because in both cases you are 
  telling the client here's something that I need from you.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah and so maybe it's not a different thing.
Justin Richer:  And that's as so that's basically that's how 
  we're treating it in cap and which is where so which is where I 
  think that there are some similarities in the pattern here 
  whether or not there's overlap and then abstraction in the 
  protocol I think you know remains we figured out but this 
  similarity is that I'm seeing in the pattern are are around that 
  type of thing where sometimes.
Justin Richer:  You talk to somebody else and go do a whole other 
  protocol and then get back to you with something sometimes you 
  just want them to answer a question that you're asking directly 
  give me a verifiable presentation that answers.
Justin Richer:  This query or what have you.
Justin Richer:  But they're materially very similar there's 
  semantically identical things where even though the process for 
  fulfillment is very different.
Manu Sporny:  Yep yep so I think we need to kind of as a group 
  drill into that and see if there's stuff here we can simplify or 
  if there's overlap where we can remove you know unnecessary 
  differentiation and things of that nature Adrian you're on the 
  queue.
Adrian Gropper:  That was quick so having spent about a decade in 
  the UMA context and then watching the healthcare people go and 
  invent something called you'd App instead of adopting Boomer or 
  looking forward to good nap I'm very sensitive to what Justin 
  just said so I'll just leave it at that.
Adrian Gropper:  There with what good app is now fixing that was 
  not fixed before and the the healthcare specific approach I don't 
  think it's going to catch on even in healthcare but they're doing 
  it.
<mprorock> <sarcasm>god forbid we recognize that this is a 
  pre-standard, work in progress, commit stuff, then move move 
  forward and improve</sarcasm>
Manu Sporny:  All right thanks for that input Adrian okay if 
  there are no other comments on this PR please take a look at it 
  and tell us what you think of it that sort of thing the next PR 
  up is in a different repo but this goes to what Justin was.
Manu Sporny:   Was speaking to.
Manu Sporny:  Is you might want to bootstrap into another 
  protocol or they may be another protocol that comes into effect 
  so in the verifiable presentation request spec which a number of 
  vendors are using in this space like the traceability folks digit 
  bizarre uses it there is a section on interaction so last I think 
  it was a week or so ago.
Manu Sporny:  For mediated presentation, you need a human being 
  to step in and do something or you don't need a human being to 
  step in and you can just respond through HTTP that takes 
  basically verifiable presentation right so those are the two 
  things that we had before but interaction as we talked about last 
  week has you can provide a whole bunch of different ways of 
  interacting in these are usually known as.
Manu Sporny:   Has different protocols.
Manu Sporny:  And so when you say I want to start a workflow in 
  the response comes back to you in it there can be an interaction 
  interact mechanism and it could for example be an open IDC 
  credential provider interact mechanism where it expects you to 
  then bootstrap into an open IDC credential provider approach so 
  this is the work that matter has been working on.
Manu Sporny:  To respond using open ID Connect credential 
  provider there's a it says I understand that and you can go here 
  to do that or if you wanted to interact in communicate over did 
  calm so you wanted to switch from VC API into did Cam you have 
  that capability through this Edition and you can list multiple 
  interaction mechanisms so you can respond.
Manu Sporny:  Just through VC API you can respond with open IDC 
  credential provider you can do respond with did calm in the 
  receiving server the issuer for example supports all three 
  protocols or two or whatever you know it is so this PR is meant 
  to demonstrate that we could bootstrap into other protocols.
<adrian_gropper> UDAP Today: 
  https://groups.google.com/g/udap-discuss/c/wdKGtb6d0b0/m/BDRw4jTHAAAJ
Manu Sporny:  Through you know verifiable presentation request it 
  tells you how it can interact now clearly the market it's best 
  for the market if we could agree on one thing you know simpler if 
  it solves all the use cases you know simpler security 
  characteristics less code to go wrong you know all that kind of 
  stuff but what we're trying to do here is kind of show.
Manu Sporny:   All the different wallet.
Manu Sporny:  Two calls that there is a way to go about this 
  where not everyone has to choose to die on their own Hill right 
  it's a we can at least agree to the mechanism in which we then 
  bootstrap into a separate protocol which you know is is one way 
  that we could go about this so This PR is pretty simple it just 
  adds the oid see credential.
Mike Varley:  Hi there can you hear me oh super first time using 
  Safari here okay my question on the flow this is the the holder 
  reaches out to the issuer in the very first call in order to get 
  this message back that says how the issuer can interact correct 
  for all cases.
Mike Varley:  Yep yep no I can see it.
Manu Sporny:  Yes yeah that's correct can you can you see my 
  screen I'll try and point so on the on the diagram step one is so 
  this is the generic flow but it lets assume holder on the left 
  issue or on the right if holder reaches out to an issuer and says 
  I want to start this workflow the issuer can respond back with 
  that's great here's the information I need from you and here's 
  how you can interact with me in that at that point.
Manu Sporny:  And say I want you to interact with me using kind 
  of the VC API or I want you to interact with me using open ID c-- 
  credential provider or did convey to or wacky packs or this is a 
  fully automated exchange just you know give me a presentation 
  back in return all of those are options could the options.
Mike Varley:  Okay so the slow step so this first API endpoint is 
  like a almost like a dynamic Discovery API call.
Mike Varley:  That would be kind of standardized through this API 
  saying any wallet implementing this Dynamic Discovery can make 
  this API call and then look for an interact response which then 
  might switch them over to a did Chamorro IDC flow where that 
  stack is fully implemented that's it I'm getting that sense I'm 
  getting that flavor I don't know if that's the intention.
Manu Sporny:  That is the intent I'd stop by you know I don't 
  know if it's a discount I see how you could see it as a discovery 
  mechanism it's really meant to be like I want to do this thing 
  with you and then you say great here are the ways that we can 
  interact accomplish that.
Mike Varley:  Right and so I guess my other comment there is it's 
  not like a static dot well-known how could we possibly talk 
  together type meta document it's a context specific Discovery 
  API.
Manu Sporny:  Yes so the place that that's kicked off let me 
  bring up this other PR here there's this start workflow thing 
  where it's like workflows the name of the workflow and start 
  there's a presumption that this is shared out-of-band somewhere 
  right and it could be that you get this URL from a well-known 
  thing that is yet to be invented.
Manu Sporny:  At you you have a specifically like a specific end 
  point you go to to just kick the process off and from there you 
  can discover how they interact for that specific process for that 
  specific workflow you're talking about that make sense.
Mike Varley:  It does I'm wondering than would a valid 
  implementation this may be a huge question so I apologize if it 
  explodes but could a an implementer of the VC API just implement 
  this workflow start and response message and then for example the 
  open ID connect or a did.
Mike Varley:  Our core but so the only piece they really 
  Implement from VC API is his this component.
Manu Sporny:  I think the short answer is yes I think at least 
  that's kind of been the proposal but that's up for the group to 
  kind of discuss and see if that's a you know a good idea or not.
Mike Varley:  Absolutely and I just wanted to hear your thoughts 
  on that and you said you know yes that would be compliance okay 
  cool great thank you.
Manu Sporny:  All right thanks Mike Mike Pro rocker on the queue.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah thanks man who and and mr. Marley I think you 
  hit on something key which is it's highly context-specific right 
  this is not like a capabilities Discovery mechanism ride this is 
  not saying oh what crypto do you support or anything like that 
  right it's very specific around you know oh you've got this thing 
  let me go ahead and deal with this specific item right like a 
  credential type item or something else the.
Mike Prorock:  I think the other key thing you hit on is that you 
  may we may well see micro service type deployments that are like 
  yep I'm just handling workflows or I'm just who you know handling 
  verification etcetera as subsets of this so.
Mike Varley: +1 Thanks
Manu Sporny:  Yep that's that's exactly right Mike you know I 
  think the goal with the VC API is you can choose to only 
  Implement subsets of it so issuers would probably only you know 
  Implement issuing May Implement workflows verification verifiers 
  would maybe just Implement verification without issuing you know 
  present to holder software might just implement this side of it 
  right.
Manu Sporny:  Workflow stuff... anyone can Implement so whether 
  you're an issuer you might have workflows for issuing stuff for 
  verifiers you might have workflows for verifying stuff and you 
  could even contact holders and say I want to engage in a certain 
  type of well-known workflow with you but I mean that's that's a 
  bit speculative right I don't know praise ability folks might 
  have a use case it's actually I think traceability does have a 
  use case for that where the issuer contacts you and they're like 
  I've got some credentials for you.
Manu Sporny:  And so that could be viewed as like a workflow.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah since you went there yeah we have that we 
  absolutely do have that exact use case of saying yep I've got a 
  pile of credentials or a presentation with a bunch of you know 
  credentials inside of it that you know let me know when you're 
  ready to come get this right and and you know it does some 
  exchange of challenge token Etc once again we also from an 
  interop standpoint are starting to look at that capabilities 
  Discovery side right and how does that get done we had been using 
  did config which has some.
Mike Prorock:  Likely shifting over to did web on a lot of that 
  so but that but that kind of capabilities this discovery of are 
  you supporting issuing you know are you supporting verifying 
  right basically what are these endpoint groups are you supporting 
  that side of it is getting you know somewhat auto-detected and 
  check box via tests on our own the interop side of things for 
  traceability so.
Manu Sporny:  Got it thanks Mike yep yep okay so I mean plenty to 
  dive into here but you know the first step is to try and just 
  Define exactly what the API looks like with the schemas 
  input-output documentation looks like and kind of go from there 
  okay that's PR 15 on the verifiable presentation request spec any 
  other comments or questions on bootstrap into protocol from VP 
  API?

Topic: Issue Processing

Manu Sporny:  Okay if there's nothing else there let's go ahead 
  and jump into issue processing next to processing.
Manu Sporny: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Mike.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah just a light that posit is one thing that 
  occurred to me and I just wanted some clarification on your 
  thinking on this so far as far as bouncing out into other 
  services obviously things that are very credential you know 
  related such as oid C etcetera makes sense there what about like 
  arbitrary Services right because a case that comes up for us the 
  you know still in the early phases of hashing out as like you 
  know doing things like saying hey.
Mike Prorock:  Areas of credentials coming in related to some 
  known thing like a shipment can you go ahead and just start 
  streaming me these credentials you know over to some arbitrary 
  service right that good just think Pub sub type stuff is that 
  something you and vision being able to handle with this kind of 
  thing basically saying yep if you're authorizing X you know yep 
  you could go ahead and do that and then fire off this service 
  here or do you think it should be bound a little more.
Manu Sporny:  The former so interaction types are meant to be in 
  extensibility point in so if there's some kind of like let's say 
  you're doing like mqtt streaming of some totally different other 
  type of credential you know I think that's a possibility now you 
  know is it is it a good thing to bootstrap from like a verifiable 
  credentials ecosystem in to some kind of totally different 
  ecosystem I don't know but it's pause it's that it's certainly 
  possible to do that right or maybe it's you know you're sharing 
  verifiable credentials over mqtt instead of this or Bluetooth 
  right or pick anything else pick any other type of you know 
  protocol that's not HTTP you should be able to bootstrap into 
  that from using this interaction type. Did that answer your 
  question Mike?
Mike Prorock:  Okay cool it did yeah thank you.
Manu Sporny:  Okay alright so let's go ahead and jump into 
  issues.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/97
Manu Sporny:  First one up is issue 97 in this is Mike you open 
  this issue confusion around and point naming Mike would you like 
  to remind us what this issue is about it's a year old at this 
  point.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah this is yeah what back in the day a little 
  bit and I think bird from discussions going back even into 2020 
  and before but basically the whole point of this issue is that 
  you know there's some pretty good guidance around how do you name 
  rest endpoints and things like that and it you know we don't 
  really follow that Super Crate here on the PC ABI there have been 
  some improvements to this.
Mike Prorock:  Basically kind of getting at you know hey should 
  we go ahead and adopt certain naming you know conventions and if 
  so when is a good time to open a PR on that when it's good time 
  not to etcetera so especially as we think about things like 
  multi-tenant Services Etc gets you know more important properly.
Manu Sporny:  Right so I think yeah excellent point I think we 
  decided to follow I forget the name of the the approach but you 
  know it's where you have a verb as the as the last as the last 
  bit so cart checkout playlist play that kind of thing I think we 
  agreed to using that General pattern in general and then you know 
  the question of can you tack the API on the end of a tenant ID I 
  think I thought we said yeah you can do that meaning that like 
  you know the the endpoints are not intended to be just bear off 
  of the off of a domain I think you can I thought we said we could 
  put them at the end of it.
Manu Sporny:  As long as they're the end of the URL we're good 
  but I don't know if I'm misremembering that anyone else remember 
  what decision we came to there.
Joe Andrieu:  I also recall the latter one specifically that's 
  requiring it to be at Route was an anti-pattern we seem to 
  recognize.
Manu Sporny:  Okay.
Manu Sporny:  I'm going to write that down because I think that's 
  what we said anyone have any heartburn over that.
Manu Sporny:  And then does anyone have any heartburn over the 
  does anyone remember the name like.
Manu Sporny:  Name for what we the approach we took.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah I'm looking it up and basically no one uses 
  it which is also part of the confusion anytime I throw this API 
  at a developer is it doesn't match what everyone else in the 
  world does so that's you know which is more noun based followed 
  by you know verb of like I've got credentials and then I wanted 
  you know I have a credential / I want to issue or you know a 
  getter in this context of you know holders for us and stuff like 
  that.
Manu Sporny:  So do we want to write that down as a decision we 
  made and it's problematic or do we want to say we never made that 
  decision but for whatever reason that's kind of where the API is 
  these days and we need to talk about it more.
Mike Prorock:  I need for my son I'd like to talk about it more 
  or at least revisit maybe with a reorg PR but whenever timing is 
  right so I'm happy to comment on the issue on that.
Manu Sporny:  Do you think we need a new specific issue around 
  that or do you want to continue discussing it in this position.
Mike Prorock:  I think continuing here is fine I think as I know 
  Ori added some actually some helpful examples up above of 
  different pads that also get followed so.
Mike Prorock:  Since then you know you know restful API obviously 
  is gone through and done some very useful things like you know 
  put out an actual design tutorial for restful apis right and 
  stuff like that that we probably should adhere to if we're trying 
  to you know get just in as much as this is pre standards that's 
  part of my concern is let's not get down a certain path too far 
  and then have to go revamp everything right.
Manu Sporny:  Yep okay all right that's that item anyone else 
  want to weigh in on that or before we move on to the next one.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/104
Manu Sporny:  Next item is issue 104 raised by One enable HTTP 
  request to specify optional verification checks there was a PR 
  that just went in at Marcus I think you were you were involved 
  with that PR and Charles was as well where we took.
Manu Sporny:  I believe Marcus do you remember what we did there?
Markus Sabadello:  Yeah I remember that the problem was 
  specifically that there was a conflict between what's implemented 
  in the test suite and what's in the open API specification so the 
  test Suite was sending checks option that was not actually 
  Allowed by the by the open API specification and at some point we 
  had a call which I moderated I think it because you
Markus Sabadello:  Couldn't that call we had a lot of discussion 
  around verifying and validating and there was pretty strong 
  consensus that  some things that we would consider.
Markus Sabadello:  Validates validation like checking if check 
  satisfies certain business requirements things like that would be 
  out of scope so a lot of things that would maybe justify a checks 
  option that would make that would add some flexibility in what 
  exactly happens suddenly seemed to become less important than 
  less relevant and the group was supportive of having a more 
  well-defined.
Markus Sabadello:  Behavior when specifying something rather than 
  having too much flexibility and there were several open issues 
  related to that and all of that seemed to go into a Direction 
  Where We want it to moved option again first first reason being 
  the the contradiction or the conflict between the specification 
  and the test suite and the second reason being a feeling that we 
  wanted less flexibility.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah just recalling some discussion around when 
  this issue was opened I think some of the difficulty was in the 
  way it has been addressed since we've moved it to like actual 
  more open API proper you know definitions so like I know when the 
  trace case were now able to actually test them using normal you 
  know you know Postman Etc tall you bought it you know APA valid 
  API.
Mike Prorock:  This is a lot of this in addition to the fact in 
  addition to Marcus's adjustments in that PR you know some of the 
  little while ago so.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so I so that this decision is the group the 
  group talked about this we wanted less optionality and we have 
  taken this out of the API.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah and we can actually validate the API schemas 
  now as well more more fully.
Manu Sporny:  Juan do you feel like then the issues addressed 
  like this is not an option anymore we can verify the endpoints 
  we're done with this issue okay.
Juancho: Yeah yeah it's fine.
Manu Sporny:  Okay great all right next up what do we want the 
  March 20 21 flood Fest feature free state the be.
Mike Prorock:  I would recommend some time in 2021.
Manu Sporny:  I mean we can't change the past do we just close 
  this.
Mike Prorock:  Close no longer relevant.
Manu Sporny:  Overtaken by events it is now 2022.
Manu Sporny:  Alright next one up.
Manu Sporny:  We're going to have to probably hold off until Orie 
  gets here... this is a learning credential VC edu... Dimitri, 
  Kerri, any thoughts here.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Let me pull that up.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/107
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Right.
<mprorock> the @reverse was the really neat thing about this one 
  iirc
Dmitri Zagidulin:  We should add an example credential like that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  The exact contents of that credential as you 
  can probably imagine has been evolving among very different among 
  various different groups so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Kerri, would it make sense for us to have the 
  discussion item Paul to get by it.
Kerri Lemoie:  Yeah I think so can you hear me okay okay good so 
  there's a couple things going on is when we'll to is that some of 
  the work that describes this data is happening into education 
  standards groups open Badges and CLR but also a VC EDU we've been 
  talking about I'm having a context file that does this either to 
  helps describe this so I think I might be safe too and if we 
  could move it over into VC edu or.
Kerri Lemoie:  What do you think, Manu?
Manu Sporny:  Yeah we can't we can move it over there's a 
  transfer link somewhere here I forget where exactly.
Kerri Lemoie:  Does that make sense to you Dimitri?
Dmitri Zagidulin:  It does yeah do we want to leave a comment to 
  that effect and see if Orie is good with that.
Kerri Lemoie:  Yeah that'd be great.
Manu Sporny:  I was gonna okay all right so where we would.
Kerri Lemoie:  Absolutely I am.
Manu Sporny:  Okay all.
Kerri Lemoie:  Yeah a lot has changed in VC I do since this was 
  made so.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Right.
Kerri Lemoie:  Thank you.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/105
Manu Sporny:  This one might also be easy this is issue 105.
Mike Prorock:  And long since resolved I issued PR is on that 
  last year sometime.
Manu Sporny:  Okay.
Manu Sporny:  Okay that's that one.
Manu Sporny:  Here's a good one.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/91
Manu Sporny:  There's a suggestion that we should use a 
  well-known endpoint for an API to advertise optional features 
  supported such as digital signature schemes credential status 
  methods optional apis some discussion between or Daniel Buchner 
  one MikeP you're the last comment on here thoughts.
Mike Prorock: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/45/files
Mike Prorock:  Yeah the obviously this is evolving because did 
  config we have been leveraging over on the trace side for exactly 
  this part of the issue is that did configuration is highly 
  complex for folks that aren't familiar with it to generate and or 
  generate properly I just put in the chat a link to pull 45 which 
  we just merged all... this has to do with the same issue as far 
  as Discovery but leverages a did web for that as far as just 
  saying hey what keys do I need to use for testing it obviously 
  does not cover all capabilities right that the this issue 
  addresses but it does have I think is a good step in the right 
  direction.
Mike Prorock:  Since we have gotten away from optional features 
  right on the VC API that in addition to leveraging something like 
  you know did web for at least key Discovery for testing purposes 
  and things like that you know is it probably carries us most of 
  the way there is my personal Sense on this so.
Manu Sporny:  All right any any other comments on this one?
Manu Sporny:  What do you feel are like next steps here Mike.
Mike Prorock:  Well we can as we get into kind of implementation 
  of that PR 45 that I linked on the trace side we could always 
  back Port that over 2v Capi once we've got it up going you know 
  with Dynamic testing that might be a path right we've been doing 
  some stuff like that I'm already such as like presentations 
  available Etc so that might be a good way to handle it right.
Mike Prorock:  The appetite for other implementers something to 
  like Spruce and stuff that may want to view no weigh in on you 
  know service and key discovering type issues right and everyone 
  shares these you know concerns is just where do you hash it out 
  and test it out first to make sure it even works before you try 
  to bother defining an API around it.
Manu Sporny:  Okay so let's just say discussion will continue in 
  this PR with this update does that work for everyone.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/101
Manu Sporny:  Next on opposition 101 the readme is not clear on 
  purpose or contribution guidelines let's see my kanuri Mike.
Manu Sporny:  What are your thoughts on this one.
Mike Prorock:  My thoughts are going to send really nasty 
  messages to Horry on slack the for hanging me out on this one 
  this I believe this is actually a dupe I think because.
Mike Prorock:  In some ways right there is that API style guide 
  comment right controller versus controller was the word we were 
  looking for made it earlier that has been more or less kind of 
  moved away to collection style and points this I think we can 
  close as a dupe of others I think the contribution guidelines we 
  got PR din because I wrote those and then the API guidelines are 
  being hashed out in whatever issue that was we looked at earlier.
Mike Prorock:  Issue 97.
Mike Prorock:  So between those have between prior PR S Plus 
  issue 97 ongoing discussion I think we can close this.
Manu Sporny:  K any objections to that from anyone?
Manu Sporny:  Okay we will close that then.
Manu Sporny:  Next one is from Orie and this is the API does not 
  meet the needs of our customers.
Mike Prorock:  Yeah well I can get it some of this right so that 
  we that I know we have addressed right so one of the issues was 
  some of this spun out of contention around including an array of 
  credentials in a verifiable presentation right for being able to 
  bulk exchange you know either do one single compressed etcetera 
  and minimize traffic over the wire so that is one item.
Mike Prorock:  This also allow for workflows that could exchange 
  data via other protocols if required and under wow the 
  transcribers amazing the huh that's sorry the you know the the 
  other one is the workflow side right helps with this as well as 
  segmentation around better you know API naming and breaking stuff 
  out.
Mike Prorock:  Right but so I think we're headed the right 
  direction on this like as a as a group I don't know about closing 
  the issue my inclination would be say yes assuming Ori has no 
  concerns there with closing it but I do think that it is 
  something that we do need to consider continue to be mindful of 
  right because a lot of these workflows are very different when 
  we're looking at you know tens of thousands of concurrent 
  credential exchanges going on you know sometimes per minute and 
  the supply chain side against you know possibly one server right 
  as a different scenario than we see in other cases it mainly 
  obviously you have flowed cases as well right where you could see 
  definite High load type situations so it's just stuff we need to 
  be mindful of as we're designing this stuff out we need to design 
  it to last and you know follow all best practices whenever 
  possible even in a void.
Mike Prorock:   Reinventing the wheel right that's that's I think 
  one of the biggest dangers we could fall into is trying to go oh 
  because it's credentials or web three or whatever the cool new 
  term is you know to forget the lessons that have already been 
  learned by everyone else right over time so that's my soapbox is 
  now set aside and them back.
Manu Sporny:  Okay alright so I wrote down you know high level of 
  what you said are we okay I feel like these are General 
  considerations we need to keep in mind and we're headed in the 
  right direction with the group be okay with closing this issue 
  which is pretty big and Broad in then or suggesting that we close 
  the issue to Orie and then asking for more specific issues to be 
  raised if there's anything remaining.
<mprorock> That seems very sane
Manu Sporny:  We're out of time only two minutes left next one up 
  was going to be 113 the oauth2 bearer token thing for plugfest 
  2021 we didn't do that this was you know overtaken by events we 
  could probably close it but let's not rush that well I mean this 
  is overtaken by events for the 21 plugfest we could update this 
  for 22.
Manu Sporny:  At a time anything else folks would like to comment 
  on before the end of the call anything we should keep in mind for 
  the next week any of that stuff.
Mike Prorock:  One single chair note which is looking at certain 
  people on this call to self nominate for the open ccg chair roll.
Manu Sporny:  +1, That thanks for the reminder like all right 
  with that thanks everyone for the call today appreciate the 
  engagement we will be back next week.
<kerri_lemoie> Thanks!
