[2020-03-23T15:08:49.337Z]	<leonardr>	present+
[2020-03-23T15:09:09.134Z]	<Orie>	Present+
[2020-03-23T15:09:12.584Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-03-23T15:09:26.769Z]	<JamesChartrand>	present+
[2020-03-23T15:09:32.366Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Mar/0064.html
[2020-03-23T15:11:02.621Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-03-23T15:11:02.718Z]	<AlanD>	present+
[2020-03-23T15:11:17.780Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-03-23T15:11:29.377Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-03-23T15:11:43.454Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-03-23T15:12:13.459Z]	<adamjlemmon>	present+
[2020-03-23T15:12:30.108Z]	<lauraj>	present+
[2020-03-23T15:12:32.507Z]	<david_mason>	present+
[2020-03-23T15:14:38.255Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: stuartf
[2020-03-23T15:14:52.670Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
[2020-03-23T15:14:56.107Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-03-23T15:14:59.467Z]	<stuartf>	present+
[2020-03-23T15:15:31.347Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions and Re-introductions
[2020-03-23T15:15:45.008Z]	<kimhd>	S_Gallant is Scott Gallant introducing himself
[2020-03-23T15:15:45.098Z]	<stuartf>	S_Gallant: 20+ years ed tech, heathcare interop
[2020-03-23T15:16:01.177Z]	<stuartf>	... webshield, also does privacy consulting
[2020-03-23T15:16:10.429Z]	<juan>	present+
[2020-03-23T15:16:25.875Z]	<kimhd>	Nick Hathaway introducing himself
[2020-03-23T15:16:33.322Z]	<kimhd>	present+ nick_hathaway
[2020-03-23T15:16:39.377Z]	<stuartf>	nick: elcocker, 25+ years ed tech experience, working on wallets
[2020-03-23T15:17:16.573Z]	<kimhd>	lauraj is at UWashington
[2020-03-23T15:17:19.377Z]	<stuartf>	lauraj: business analyst at U washington, higher ed vc use cases
[2020-03-23T15:17:58.923Z]	<kimhd>	Joshua Marks PCG
[2020-03-23T15:18:15.096Z]	<stuartf>	joshua: ims global comprehensive learner spec
[2020-03-23T15:18:17.390Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Guest expert Orie Steele presents open source libraries and VC-EDU demos
[2020-03-23T15:19:08.029Z]	<Joshua_Marks>	Is there we screen share for this call?
[2020-03-23T15:19:17.887Z]	<stuartf>	kimhd: there are a few libraries that orie called attention to, signature suite, and vc demo
[2020-03-23T15:19:18.571Z]	<Joshua_Marks>	Is there a screen share for this call?
[2020-03-23T15:19:42.336Z]	<stuartf>	... repo of vc examples, we might consider adding our stuff to
[2020-03-23T15:20:12.898Z]	<Orie>	https://gist.github.com/OR13/0b8be9d8c43c2acd2d7cf09f6887a8a0
[2020-03-23T15:20:33.954Z]	<kimhd>	voip: noise?
[2020-03-23T15:20:58.202Z]	<stuartf>	orie: transmute, works on decentralized identifiers
[2020-03-23T15:21:02.714Z]	<kimhd>	present+ Joshua_Marks
[2020-03-23T15:21:27.923Z]	<stuartf>	... demo regarding working with dhs
[2020-03-23T15:21:54.608Z]	<stuartf>	... open source interop with credentials
[2020-03-23T15:22:13.860Z]	<kimhd>	reminder, links are here: https://gist.github.com/OR13/0b8be9d8c43c2acd2d7cf09f6887a8a0
[2020-03-23T15:22:43.880Z]	<kimhd>	note: if you're using Brave browser, you may have to "lower your shields" for these sites
[2020-03-23T15:25:16.047Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to offer applause
[2020-03-23T15:25:53.841Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-03-23T15:28:47.088Z]	<kimhd>	verifier repo: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-verifier-http-api
[2020-03-23T15:29:01.249Z]	<kimhd>	issuer repo: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-issuer-http-api
[2020-03-23T15:30:23.982Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-03-23T15:30:52.543Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-03-23T15:30:54.276Z]	<stuartf>	kimhd: credential handler api?
[2020-03-23T15:31:08.180Z]	<stuartf>	orie: api for interacting with creds on websites
[2020-03-23T15:31:15.620Z]	<kimhd>	chapi: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/credential-handler-api/
[2020-03-23T15:33:02.596Z]	<leonardr>	q+
[2020-03-23T15:33:59.861Z]	<stuartf>	orie: other apis are being developed such as did-com 
[2020-03-23T15:33:59.862Z]	<stuartf>	kimhd: and badge connect
[2020-03-23T15:34:17.542Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-03-23T15:34:22.471Z]	<kimhd>	ack leonardr
[2020-03-23T15:34:38.382Z]	<stuartf>	leonardr: looking at chapi, appears to be tied to browser implementations
[2020-03-23T15:35:05.028Z]	<kimhd>	stuartf I'll see if we can get another volunteer
[2020-03-23T15:35:11.737Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-03-23T15:35:14.438Z]	<stuartf>	orie: this is addressing long standing issues in the browser space, very browser oriented
[2020-03-23T15:35:25.488Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to talk about badge connect differences to CHAPI if desired when it fits in
[2020-03-23T15:35:37.855Z]	<stuartf>	leonardr: server-to-server in the future>
[2020-03-23T15:35:59.471Z]	<kimhd>	stuartf -- one other thought, you can dial in by phone. I can scribe for you while that's happening
[2020-03-23T15:36:02.409Z]	<kimhd>	let me know
[2020-03-23T15:36:07.871Z]	<stuartf>	orie: chapi requests could be put over other media, but hasn't been done yet
[2020-03-23T15:36:29.500Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-03-23T15:36:46.098Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-03-23T15:36:49.662Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-03-23T15:37:06.314Z]	<kimhd>	ottonomy: re server-to-server transmission
[2020-03-23T15:37:23.995Z]	<kimhd>	...spec that operates over OBs called BadgeConnect, part of OB 2.1
[2020-03-23T15:37:33.014Z]	<kimhd>	...will be publicly available soon
[2020-03-23T15:37:55.099Z]	<kimhd>	...oauth2 + auth grants to enable users to provide permissions to transfer creds from service to service
[2020-03-23T15:38:07.448Z]	<kimhd>	...badgeconnect is s2s
[2020-03-23T15:38:23.331Z]	<kimhd>	...id provider can also be resource for credentials
[2020-03-23T15:38:33.535Z]	<kimhd>	...need to know domain name of badgeconnect host
[2020-03-23T15:39:01.421Z]	<kimhd>	...once it has permission it can send creds
[2020-03-23T15:39:13.614Z]	<kimhd>	...api is fairly extensible
[2020-03-23T15:39:15.678Z]	<andy_>	Badge Connect API (aka OB 2.1) is public (still Candidate Final) at https://www.imsglobal.org/activity/digital-badges
[2020-03-23T15:39:20.198Z]	<kimhd>	...content can be flexible
[2020-03-23T15:40:09.588Z]	<kimhd>	...interested in broader conversation about compatibility, and IMS is interested in VC alignment
[2020-03-23T15:40:22.641Z]	<kimhd>	...if compatible, we should talk about how this would work
[2020-03-23T15:40:50.315Z]	<stuartf>	but yes
[2020-03-23T15:41:32.653Z]	<stuartf>	orie: spec about badge connect is interesting, would like to check out reference impl and examples
[2020-03-23T15:41:49.053Z]	<stuartf>	... could be dropped into the demo we just saw on issuer side
[2020-03-23T15:42:15.868Z]	<stuartf>	... possibly a direct integration
[2020-03-23T15:42:36.808Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-03-23T15:43:06.969Z]	<kimhd>	q+ to ask about authoring creds
[2020-03-23T15:43:15.864Z]	<ottonomy>	Badge Connect (Open Badges 2.1) is now in "Candidate Final (Public)" status available here: https://www.imsglobal.org/spec/ob/v2p1/ more links here https://www.imsglobal.org/activity/digital-badges
[2020-03-23T15:43:43.788Z]	<stuartf>	... vc signature suites being worked on by transmute
[2020-03-23T15:44:47.984Z]	<leonardr>	q+
[2020-03-23T15:45:17.541Z]	<kimhd>	q-
[2020-03-23T15:45:47.991Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-03-23T15:45:59.828Z]	<stuartf>	... same key to issue multiple types of credential with json web token
[2020-03-23T15:46:23.137Z]	<stuartf>	... or linked data
[2020-03-23T15:46:49.148Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to ask a question about signature suites (after discussion on gpg suite) and how to build an ecosystem around suites
[2020-03-23T15:47:06.153Z]	<kimhd>	q-
[2020-03-23T15:47:07.076Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-03-23T15:47:35.360Z]	<stuartf>	... gpg signature suite does the same but using gpg keys
[2020-03-23T15:47:44.068Z]	<kimhd>	ack leonardr
[2020-03-23T15:48:09.853Z]	<stuartf>	leonardr: any consideration or plan for ??? standard
[2020-03-23T15:48:24.242Z]	<stuartf>	... etsi standard
[2020-03-23T15:48:46.714Z]	<stuartf>	... EU standards must comply
[2020-03-23T15:48:49.302Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-03-23T15:49:36.908Z]	<stuartf>	nate: discussion about selecting suites and how we can avoid confusing users about what can communicate with what
[2020-03-23T15:50:03.300Z]	<stuartf>	... what do we need in terms of agreements to assure that compatibility happens
[2020-03-23T15:50:06.980Z]	<leonardr>	ETSI_ESI - https://portal.etsi.org/TB-SiteMap/esi/esi-activities
[2020-03-23T15:50:24.322Z]	<leonardr>	JAdES - https://portal.etsi.org/webapp/WorkProgram/Report_WorkItem.asp?WKI_ID=52897
[2020-03-23T15:50:31.382Z]	<stuartf>	orie: there's a risk that diff companies go off and do similar looking things that don't interop
[2020-03-23T15:50:45.113Z]	<stuartf>	... agree to a key representation
[2020-03-23T15:51:11.400Z]	<stuartf>	... number of reasons for everyone to use jwk
[2020-03-23T15:51:28.741Z]	<stuartf>	... works with JOSE, many things already work with this
[2020-03-23T15:51:33.297Z]	<kimhd>	thanks Leonard!
[2020-03-23T15:51:39.163Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-03-23T15:52:01.534Z]	<stuartf>	... agree on signature representation
[2020-03-23T15:52:09.588Z]	<stuartf>	... reccommend jose
[2020-03-23T15:52:53.542Z]	<stuartf>	... as a community identify software that is aleready widespread and adapt it instead of building whole new stacks
[2020-03-23T15:53:40.220Z]	<stuartf>	leonardr: badge connect considereing signed software statement signed with jwk in jose
[2020-03-23T15:54:18.358Z]	<stuartf>	... key question "what should we do to select did methods and sig suites to ensure compatibility"
[2020-03-23T15:55:03.260Z]	<stuartf>	kimhd: already it was unclear what the best choice
[2020-03-23T15:55:22.643Z]	<Orie>	For example: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/ld-cryptosuite-registry/
[2020-03-23T15:56:03.395Z]	<stuartf>	... ccg is acting as a gatekeeper where it shouldn't, we're not crypto experts
[2020-03-23T15:56:40.348Z]	<stuartf>	... vc data model spec complicated if using jots
[2020-03-23T15:57:14.681Z]	<Orie>	See the (harmful) optionality here: https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#jwt-encoding
[2020-03-23T15:57:18.041Z]	<stuartf>	... we're green field so can save effort by choosing existing standards
[2020-03-23T15:57:23.776Z]	<Orie>	(harmful is my opinion)
[2020-03-23T15:57:32.020Z]	<leonardr>	q+
[2020-03-23T15:57:47.892Z]	<stuartf>	... what is the context of vc examples?
[2020-03-23T15:57:52.663Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-03-23T15:58:07.781Z]	<stuartf>	orie: starting point is spec, look for examples
[2020-03-23T15:58:17.077Z]	<stuartf>	... make things that look like the example
[2020-03-23T15:58:32.208Z]	<stuartf>	... problem when the example is very hypothetical
[2020-03-23T15:58:51.158Z]	<stuartf>	... try to prepare examples with real sigs that really verify
[2020-03-23T15:59:19.255Z]	<stuartf>	... pick did method that you can actually implement, did:web is good for this
[2020-03-23T15:59:49.191Z]	<stuartf>	... anything that uses a browser can use it, no need for lots of blockchain signatures
[2020-03-23T16:00:26.274Z]	<stuartf>	... a few things you have to do, define the context and host it
[2020-03-23T16:00:36.100Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-examples/tree/master/docs/cmtr/examples/v0.1
[2020-03-23T16:01:00.541Z]	<stuartf>	... markdown file in link defines the format
[2020-03-23T16:01:19.523Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-examples/
[2020-03-23T16:01:24.607Z]	<stuartf>	... links have to be resolvable for the example to make sense
[2020-03-23T16:01:35.771Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-examples/cmtr/examples/v0.1/cmtr-verifiable-credential-v0.1.json
[2020-03-23T16:01:51.388Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-examples/cmtr/examples/v0.1/cmtr-v0.1
[2020-03-23T16:02:03.708Z]	<stuartf>	... context definition for this defines cmtr property
[2020-03-23T16:02:53.157Z]	<stuartf>	... can contain anything because this spec is in flux, as we become more confident in the structure become more specific
[2020-03-23T16:03:02.128Z]	<kimhd>	ack leonardr
[2020-03-23T16:03:31.976Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-03-23T16:03:39.173Z]	<Orie>	https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#contexts
[2020-03-23T16:03:39.873Z]	<stuartf>	leonardr: disagree, it's not required that the documents be available and resolvable
[2020-03-23T16:03:49.808Z]	<Orie>	@context is REQUIRED :)
[2020-03-23T16:04:26.924Z]	<leonardr>	must be present but need not be resolvable
[2020-03-23T16:04:38.834Z]	<stuartf>	... curious about harmful nature of jwt optionality
[2020-03-23T16:05:29.708Z]	<stuartf>	orie: jwt has reserved terms that come from jose, want to have short names and make sure no one overrides them
[2020-03-23T16:06:20.033Z]	<stuartf>	... when extended for vc having things always map resulted in having the data end up in various optional places
[2020-03-23T16:06:28.328Z]	<stuartf>	... makes implementation complex
[2020-03-23T16:06:58.574Z]	<stuartf>	... trying to verify means figuring out which options the issuer chose
[2020-03-23T16:07:01.402Z]	<leonardr>	Ah - I see what you mean.  I misread that part of the spec.  I read it as requirement to use the JOSE/JWT naming and *not* the VC ones
[2020-03-23T16:07:29.763Z]	<Orie>	"For backward compatibility with JWT processors, the following JWT-registered claim names MUST be used instead of, or in addition to, their respective standard verifiable credential counterparts:"
[2020-03-23T16:08:03.122Z]	<leonardr>	Yeah, missed that "or" - we should get that fixed :)
[2020-03-23T16:08:09.514Z]	<stuartf>	kimhd: if uris are missing and terms are defined, there may be security problems, or problems invalidating
[2020-03-23T16:08:10.152Z]	<Orie>	yes :)
[2020-03-23T16:08:44.032Z]	<stuartf>	... longer discussion will follow up
[2020-03-23T16:34:04.836Z]	<larinyo>	Anybody here?
