Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-01-09/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-01-09/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-01-09.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2024-01-09

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jan&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Kimberly Linson, Nis Jespersen , Harrison Tang, Kaliya Young, 
  TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Jing Chao, 
  Brandi Delancey, Bob Wyman, Dmitri Zagidulin, Vanessa, Shayan 
  Salehi, Gregory Natran, Erica Connell, Frank Hinek, Sadia, Will, 
  Joe Andrieu, David I. Lehn, Adrian Gropper, Phil (T3), Kerri 
  Lemoie, Chandi Cumaranatunge

<harrison_tang> We'll start in a minute or two
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Kimberly Linson:  Recording is on all right recording is on okay 
  so let me start over we are all here to learn and participate in 
  this community and that means that in order for us to do be 
  successful at that we have to adhere to a code of ethics and 
  professional conduct if you'd like to read more about.
Kimberly Linson:  Link to the w3c's code of conduct is in the 
  agenda and I think that that I appreciate the way that this group 
  respects and and engages with one another the IP note we welcome 
  I think most as I'm looking through I see a lot of familiar faces 
  today but yes if you are not a part of the officially part of the 
  ccg we're super glad.
Kimberly Linson:   You're here.
Kimberly Linson:  And hopefully if you want to begin contributing 
  more actively that you will go ahead and join the w3c and sign 
  the contributor license agreement links to that can also be found 
  in the agenda.
Kimberly Linson:  We keep a recording and minutes from this 
  meeting so that we can have it for the future to to go back and 
  reference to to be able to keep kind of a historical view of what 
  we've been doing and so we use jet C2 to record those meetings 
  and if you want to participate we follow a cue format so you can 
  add yourself to the queue by typing.
Kimberly Linson:  You would like to discuss and we certainly hope 
  that you will ask questions and be an Engaged participant in the 
  conversation today now it's time for introductions and 
  reintroductions is there anybody here who would like to put 
  themselves on the Queue and introduce themselves.
Kimberly Linson:  All right well the next section of the agenda 
  is announcements and reminders before I turn it over to the queue 
  I'll go ahead and take this opportunity to share my own 
  announcement which is that next week's ccg meeting is going to be 
  an open format meeting we're going to talk about work items we're 
  going to talk about the things we might want to accomplish in 
  2024 so I invite you to one.
Kimberly Linson:  Sure that that people attend and that we really 
  have a representation of everybody who's a part of this community 
  and to that you think about the things that are important to you 
  and bring and come to that meeting prepared to share those things 
  I really am going to be hoping that we can get.
Kimberly Linson:  More of a brainstorming put everything out on 
  the table and then we'll work together on the list and in the 
  subsequent meeting to kind of refine that but really I think 
  think of this as a as a true open meeting and hopefully that will 
  plant some seeds in your mind okay so now I'm over to the Q 
  Kalia.
Kaliya Young:  Hi and we'll just wanted to share that before the 
  internet identity Workshop super early bird registration is 
  closing at the end of this week so if you want to get a super 
  cheap ticket now is your chance a conference is April 16 to 18 at 
  the Computer History Museum in Mountain View California.
Kimberly Linson:  Great thank you anyone else within announcement 
  a reminder.
Kimberly Linson:  All right how about anything related to work 
  items is there anything we need to discuss is a community or an 
  outer reminders or updates.
Kimberly Linson:  All right well with that I have finished going 
  through housekeeping and it is my pleasure to turn it over to 
  Jack and let him go through his presentation and then we can have 
  a discussion at the end Jack the floor is yours.
<kimberly_wilson_linson> Agreed
<dmitri_zagidulin> Our Verifiable Governance work used this spec 
  as well
<dmitri_zagidulin> (though not exactly for delegation -- I don't 
  think delegation should be modeled as multi-sig (as that's mixing 
  layers))
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Oh sure so I think couple months ago I did a 
  presentation here at the ccg on verifiable governance and that 
  work uses the verifiable condition spec so it's very we found it 
  very.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  His phone that said since he mentions 
  delegation I don't think that multi signature alone should be 
  used to implement delegation since its its layering business 
  logic over a data Integrity layer but it's definitely definitely 
  useful tool in delegation and similar operations.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Nice yeah quick question so do you intend to 
  continue with the spec like is their interest to maintain it 
  seems useful.
Kimberly Linson:  Any other questions for Jack.
Kimberly Linson:  Comments ways you're using this.
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12ACHEK7CoEe8OgonZHeJW4zMYXKqz0m-PKhbhzqZYV0/edit
Frank_Hinek: I'm just curious in there in the Syntax for 
  specifying it it's basically using embedded verification methods 
  is it possible to do by reference.
Frank_Hinek: You don't have to repeat the ID type controller 
  information in the conditional.
Frank_Hinek: Yeah like in saying usage where verification 
  relationships going to be by reference or basically embedded 
  these could be by reference as well you're saying.
Frank_Hinek: Reference other things.
Kimberly Linson:  Check how about any other questions.
Kimberly Linson:  Anyone who is anyone using this already or as 
  Jack was asking think this is making you interested about adding 
  it.
Frank_Hinek: I would I would guess just comment we don't have in 
  the work being done at TBD around the didn't realize web nodes 
  and did DHT method or standardizing.
<dmitri_zagidulin> Verifiable Governance presentation: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Ws_7Fl2WIokXlRfBDafiFGZHT-Zev1CbqW2AOG5beJY
Frank_Hinek: Have used for to get it signatures the Multi-Device 
  purpose case basically to protect you know against the 
  compromised is not basically we can your route properties and 
  their son would gated did that has lesser permission so I think 
  in that context there's some overlap and so it's interesting to 
  do a little more reading on this and see what the utility might 
  be.
Frank_Hinek: 10 code that information directly in the document.
Frank_Hinek: What's the best way.
Frank_Hinek: I was just going to ask like is there a like a 
  formal spec for this looking at GitHub repo and it's still kind 
  of like a work in progress a little bit.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah so going off a little tangent but I'm just 
  curious if anyone maybe we'll knows is that the difference 
  between like Shamir secure sharing versus students nor like 
  photography like what's the difference between like aggregated 
  signatures verses like this reality Generations.
<will> This is the schnorr based musig method btw 
  https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0327.mediawiki. 
  Definitely would need a VM type for schnorr sigs
Frank_Hinek: It intentionally does not reveal.
Frank_Hinek: Yeah it's intentionally done that way for privacy 
  and efficiency.
<harrison_tang> cool.  thanks!  learn new things everyday
Harrison_Tang: Uh I'm just curious like you mind going to the use 
  case of and if a light multi-factor authentication will bit more 
  like why do you need multi signatures in at that MSA like is it 
  just one signature for factor for authentication factor and if so 
  like well you watch situations during the need this.
Harrison_Tang: Got it thanks.
Kimberly Linson:  Okay well thanks Jack this was this was great 
  and really appreciate you taking the time to come and share this 
  update with us and everybody a reminder that next week will be an 
  open Agenda so do be bee thinking about ideas I think I already 
  percolated one from Kalia who sent me a paper to read so if 
  you've things that's the other thing if you have things that you 
  think this community should be reading I would love for for those 
  you to bring those.
Kimberly Linson:   Those ideas to anything and everything.
Kimberly Linson:  On the table next week so I think with that 
  I'll give everyone back a few minutes in there our again thanks 
  Jack thanks everyone with your questions and we'll look forward 
  to seeing you next week.
<harrison_tang> Thank you, Jack!!
Kimberly Linson:  Recording has stopped.
