[2024-01-09T16:56:30.412Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2024-01-09T16:58:29.588Z]	<Jack_Tanner_(CTO)>	present+
[2024-01-09T16:58:35.371Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2024-01-09T16:59:15.892Z]	<Kaliya_Identity_Woman>	present+
[2024-01-09T16:59:47.891Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-01-09T16:59:57.813Z]	<Jing_Chao>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:00:06.461Z]	<Brandi_Delancey>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:00:28.080Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:00:56.000Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:00:58.757Z]	<Vanessa>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:01:04.236Z]	<Shayan_Salehi>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:01:05.245Z]	<Rachel_Donahue_(she/they)_-_Digital_Promise>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:01:16.141Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	We'll start in a minute or two
[2024-01-09T17:01:29.832Z]	<Gregory_Natran>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:01:31.329Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:02:25.602Z]	<Frank_Hinek>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:02:46.404Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-01-09T17:02:46.405Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2024-01-09T17:03:11.922Z]	<Sadia>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:03:19.827Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Recording is on all right recording is on okay so let me start over we are all here to learn and participate in this community and that means that in order for us to do be successful at that we have to adhere to a code of ethics and professional conduct if you'd like to read more about.
[2024-01-09T17:03:20.422Z]	<Will>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:03:50.681Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Link to the w3c's code of conduct is in the agenda and I think that that I appreciate the way that this group respects and and engages with one another the IP note we welcome I think most as I'm looking through I see a lot of familiar faces today but yes if you are not a part of the officially part of the ccg we're super glad.
[2024-01-09T17:03:50.941Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  you're here.
[2024-01-09T17:04:07.119Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: And hopefully if you want to begin contributing more actively that you will go ahead and join the w3c and sign the contributor license agreement links to that can also be found in the agenda.
[2024-01-09T17:04:38.720Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: We keep a recording and minutes from this meeting so that we can have it for the future to to go back and reference to to be able to keep kind of a historical view of what we've been doing and so we use jet C2 to record those meetings and if you want to participate we follow a cue format so you can add yourself to the queue by typing.
[2024-01-09T17:04:42.351Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:04:57.083Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: You would like to discuss and we certainly hope that you will ask questions and be an Engaged participant in the conversation today now it's time for introductions and reintroductions is there anybody here who would like to put themselves on the Queue and introduce themselves.
[2024-01-09T17:05:06.571Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-01-09T17:05:41.018Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: All right well the next section of the agenda is announcements and reminders before I turn it over to the queue I'll go ahead and take this opportunity to share my own announcement which is that next week's ccg meeting is going to be an open format meeting we're going to talk about work items we're going to talk about the things we might want to accomplish in 2024 so I invite you to one.
[2024-01-09T17:06:05.716Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Sure that that people attend and that we really have a representation of everybody who's a part of this community and to that you think about the things that are important to you and bring and come to that meeting prepared to share those things I really am going to be hoping that we can get.
[2024-01-09T17:06:16.024Z]	<David_I._Lehn>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:06:28.162Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: More of a brainstorming put everything out on the table and then we'll work together on the list and in the subsequent meeting to kind of refine that but really I think think of this as a as a true open meeting and hopefully that will plant some seeds in your mind okay so now I'm over to the Q Kalia.
[2024-01-09T17:06:40.506Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	Q?
[2024-01-09T17:06:58.643Z]	<Transcriber>	Kaliya_Identity_Woman: Hi and we'll just wanted to share that before the internet identity Workshop super early bird registration is closing at the end of this week so if you want to get a super cheap ticket now is your chance a conference is April 16 to 18 at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View California.
[2024-01-09T17:07:04.066Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-01-09T17:07:05.760Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great thank you anyone else within announcement a reminder.
[2024-01-09T17:07:22.772Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: All right how about anything related to work items is there anything we need to discuss is a community or an outer reminders or updates.
[2024-01-09T17:07:47.757Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: All right well with that I have finished going through housekeeping and it is my pleasure to turn it over to Jack and let him go through his presentation and then we can have a discussion at the end Jack the floor is yours.
[2024-01-09T17:09:53.479Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:10:47.636Z]	<Phil_(T3)>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:12:21.868Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:14:26.871Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	Agreed
[2024-01-09T17:16:28.863Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	Our Verifiable Governance work used this spec as well
[2024-01-09T17:18:12.229Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	(though not exactly for delegation -- I don't think delegation should be modeled as multi-sig (as that's mixing layers))
[2024-01-09T17:22:41.371Z]	<Chandi_Cumaranatunge>	present+
[2024-01-09T17:27:33.032Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Oh sure so I think couple months ago I did a presentation here at the ccg on verifiable governance and that work uses the verifiable condition spec so it's very we found it very.
[2024-01-09T17:28:05.807Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: His phone that said since he mentions delegation I don't think that multi signature alone should be used to implement delegation since its its layering business logic over a data Integrity layer but it's definitely definitely useful tool in delegation and similar operations.
[2024-01-09T17:28:52.250Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-01-09T17:29:01.603Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Nice yeah quick question so do you intend to continue with the spec like is their interest to maintain it seems useful.
[2024-01-09T17:32:05.702Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-01-09T17:32:15.296Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Any other questions for Jack.
[2024-01-09T17:32:19.793Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Comments ways you're using this.
[2024-01-09T17:32:21.381Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-01-09T17:32:35.101Z]	<Jack_Tanner_(CTO)>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12ACHEK7CoEe8OgonZHeJW4zMYXKqz0m-PKhbhzqZYV0/edit
[2024-01-09T17:32:56.727Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank_Hinek: I'm just curious in there in the Syntax for specifying it it's basically using embedded verification methods is it possible to do by reference.
[2024-01-09T17:33:04.500Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank_Hinek: You don't have to repeat the ID type controller information in the conditional.
[2024-01-09T17:33:26.076Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank_Hinek: Yeah like in saying usage where verification relationships going to be by reference or basically embedded these could be by reference as well you're saying.
[2024-01-09T17:33:30.814Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank_Hinek: Reference other things.
[2024-01-09T17:33:50.395Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Check how about any other questions.
[2024-01-09T17:34:02.500Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Anyone who is anyone using this already or as Jack was asking think this is making you interested about adding it.
[2024-01-09T17:34:12.873Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-01-09T17:34:29.971Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank_Hinek: I would I would guess just comment we don't have in the work being done at TBD around the didn't realize web nodes and did DHT method or standardizing.
[2024-01-09T17:34:42.749Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	Verifiable Governance presentation: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Ws_7Fl2WIokXlRfBDafiFGZHT-Zev1CbqW2AOG5beJY
[2024-01-09T17:34:55.201Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank_Hinek: Have used for to get it signatures the Multi-Device purpose case basically to protect you know against the compromised is not basically we can your route properties and their son would gated did that has lesser permission so I think in that context there's some overlap and so it's interesting to do a little more reading on this and see what the utility might be.
[2024-01-09T17:34:59.421Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank_Hinek: 10 code that information directly in the document.
[2024-01-09T17:35:33.364Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank_Hinek: What's the best way.
[2024-01-09T17:35:53.616Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank_Hinek: I was just going to ask like is there a like a formal spec for this looking at GitHub repo and it's still kind of like a work in progress a little bit.
[2024-01-09T17:36:00.341Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2024-01-09T17:36:44.581Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Yeah so going off a little tangent but I'm just curious if anyone maybe we'll knows is that the difference between like Shamir secure sharing versus students nor like photography like what's the difference between like aggregated signatures verses like this reality Generations.
[2024-01-09T17:36:59.206Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q-
[2024-01-09T17:37:26.091Z]	<Will>	This is the schnorr based musig method btw https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0327.mediawiki. Definitely would need a VM type for schnorr sigs
[2024-01-09T17:37:49.982Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank_Hinek: It intentionally does not reveal.
[2024-01-09T17:38:06.373Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank_Hinek: Yeah it's intentionally done that way for privacy and efficiency.
[2024-01-09T17:38:35.056Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-01-09T17:38:37.458Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	cool.  thanks!  learn new things everyday
[2024-01-09T17:39:18.970Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2024-01-09T17:40:35.271Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Uh I'm just curious like you mind going to the use case of and if a light multi-factor authentication will bit more like why do you need multi signatures in at that MSA like is it just one signature for factor for authentication factor and if so like well you watch situations during the need this.
[2024-01-09T17:40:35.430Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q-
[2024-01-09T17:41:51.299Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-01-09T17:41:51.891Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Got it thanks.
[2024-01-09T17:42:29.527Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Okay well thanks Jack this was this was great and really appreciate you taking the time to come and share this update with us and everybody a reminder that next week will be an open Agenda so do be bee thinking about ideas I think I already percolated one from Kalia who sent me a paper to read so if you've things that's the other thing if you have things that you think this community should be reading I would love for for those you to bring those.
[2024-01-09T17:42:29.959Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  those ideas to anything and everything.
[2024-01-09T17:42:43.289Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: On the table next week so I think with that I'll give everyone back a few minutes in there our again thanks Jack thanks everyone with your questions and we'll look forward to seeing you next week.
[2024-01-09T17:42:44.814Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	Thank you, Jack!!
[2024-01-09T17:44:14.974Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Recording has stopped.