[2020-10-27T15:49:14.105Z]  <>  agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Oct/0079.html
[2020-10-27T15:49:14.105Z]  <wayne> q+
[2020-10-27T15:49:15.525Z]  <wayne> q-
[2020-10-27T15:50:44.198Z]  <william>   q+
[2020-10-27T15:50:53.495Z]  <wayne> ack william
[2020-10-27T15:50:58.238Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T15:51:05.535Z]  <wayne> q+
[2020-10-27T15:51:07.501Z]  <william>   q+
[2020-10-27T15:51:13.314Z]  <heathervescent>    q+
[2020-10-27T15:51:15.616Z]  <william>   q-
[2020-10-27T15:51:22.469Z]  <william>   q+ what color is the sky?
[2020-10-27T15:51:28.096Z]  <wayne> ack william
[2020-10-27T15:51:46.306Z]  <heathervescent>    q-
[2020-10-27T15:59:38.298Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T15:59:40.429Z]  <wayne> ack wayne
[2020-10-27T16:01:32.893Z]  <cel>   present+
[2020-10-27T16:01:37.821Z]  <heathervescent>    present+
[2020-10-27T16:02:26.533Z]  <jonathan_holt> present+ jonathan_holt
[2020-10-27T16:02:28.878Z]  <mprorock_mesur_io> present+
[2020-10-27T16:03:08.789Z]  <chriswinc> present+
[2020-10-27T16:03:56.967Z]  <manu>  present+
[2020-10-27T16:04:19.114Z]  <agropper>  present+
[2020-10-27T16:05:23.158Z]  <manu>  heathervescent: We're going to do a report out from IIW today, and John Hoopes to talk about their work.
[2020-10-27T16:05:40.612Z]  <heathervescent>    https://sri-csl.regfox.com/digital-wallets-challenge
[2020-10-27T16:05:41.325Z]  <manu>  heathervescent: SVIP Wallet competition having an event for wallet competition winners -- if you're interested, you can still register.
[2020-10-27T16:06:07.364Z]  <heathervescent>    https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-10-27T16:06:14.293Z]  <manu>  heathervescent: IP Note: Anyone can participate, please make sure you are a member to contribute substantive stuff.
[2020-10-27T16:06:19.443Z]  <Orie_> present+
[2020-10-27T16:06:28.442Z]  <wayne> present+
[2020-10-27T16:06:33.359Z]  <heathervescent>    https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-10-27T16:07:09.260Z]  <heathervescent>    https://github.com/w3c-ccg/meetings/pull/18
[2020-10-27T16:07:11.339Z]  <manu>  heathervescent: You need to make sure you have a W3C account and contribute. These meetings are transcribed and archived. As we've been transitioning  over to Jitsi, we've been rewiring things... some of meeting minutes for last couple of weeks are not at that site yet, however, you can find all meetingminutes in a raw form here.
[2020-10-27T16:07:34.673Z]  <manu>  heathervescent: once we have a solid transition to Jitsi or whatever we end up using, we'll clean up the minutes in retrospect, if you need specific minutes, please get in touch w/ the Chairs.
[2020-10-27T16:07:43.397Z]  <Anil_John> You can also join the SVIP Digital Wallet event via Webinar (right after this CCG Call)Webinar Link @ https://sri.zoomgov.com/j/1615598230?pwd=Rjk0WS9hVEtmU3V0cWg2QUJoOTlzUT09  Passcode: 886204  Webinar ID: 161 559 8230
[2020-10-27T16:07:55.747Z]  <manu>  heathervescent: We use IRC to queue -- please use IRC to queue.
[2020-10-27T16:08:17.797Z]  <manu>  heathervescent: you can "q+ to say something"
[2020-10-27T16:08:35.755Z]  <manu>  heathervescent: When we call on you to speak, keep point/comment to one point/comment, keep it brief so we can allow time for everyone to respond.
[2020-10-27T16:08:41.759Z]  <manu>  heathervescent: Let's do scribe selection.
[2020-10-27T16:08:42.507Z]  <heathervescent>    https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit#
[2020-10-27T16:09:33.005Z]  <heathervescent>    Scribe: cel
[2020-10-27T16:09:50.174Z]  <manu>  scribe: cel
[2020-10-27T16:10:14.715Z]  <cel>   heathervescent:Now we are on to introductions and re-introductions. Is there anyone on the call who would like to introduce themselves?
[2020-10-27T16:10:30.538Z]  <cel>   John IV: [...]
[2020-10-27T16:11:02.741Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: Reintroductions. Erica, are you on today?
[2020-10-27T16:11:13.970Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: dead bernett, Orie
[2020-10-27T16:11:41.684Z]  <kimhd> s/dead/Dan
[2020-10-27T16:11:42.266Z]  <cel>   Orie: Transmute. global supply chain traceability
[2020-10-27T16:12:05.413Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: Manu, reintroduction
[2020-10-27T16:12:19.517Z]  <cel>   manu: Manu Sporney, CEO of DIgital Bazaar, [..] Virginia
[2020-10-27T16:12:30.402Z]  <cel>   ... part of community almost a decade, doing standards work
[2020-10-27T16:12:51.716Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: thanks [...] jitsi
[2020-10-27T16:12:56.857Z]  <cel>   ... moving to progress on action items
[2020-10-27T16:12:57.588Z]  <heathervescent>    Action Items: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-10-27T16:13:13.872Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: start out with the jitsi status. Wayne, update
[2020-10-27T16:14:07.964Z]  <cel>   wayne: jitsi is healing. no one's fault other than browser vendors changing theings up making it diffucult for some folks to listen. manu did investigation. fixed upstream, need to pull. takes time. why we are on zoom. work up and running, haven't had a crash in a while. if community wants to continue trialing jitsi, that is an option on the table. for the interim we are using zoom. thread on
[2020-10-27T16:14:09.137Z]  <cel>   ... mailing list [...] thanks
[2020-10-27T16:14:24.110Z]  <manu>  q+ to note why we delayed... quick update.
[2020-10-27T16:14:43.616Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: We had plans to use Jitsi for todays meeting. had word there were issues that it would affect people we didn't want to affect. in last hour, switched over to zoom
[2020-10-27T16:15:07.584Z]  <cel>   ... lot of discussions on the list very religious, technology fundamentalism. i shared my thoughts. but personal thoughts don't matter if will of the communtiy is different.
[2020-10-27T16:15:40.268Z]  <cel>   ... chairs arae supporting move to jitsi, working overtime, accomodating. would like to see the community acknoledge that and positive work rather than have negative threads while we are dealing with on ongoing bugfixing issue.
[2020-10-27T16:15:46.967Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:15:47.958Z]  <cel>   ... Let's talk about the next action item, documentation of CCG
[2020-10-27T16:15:48.566Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T16:15:53.854Z]  <heathervescent>    ack manu
[2020-10-27T16:16:42.971Z]  <cel>   manu: real quick on jitsi thing. we are waiting on... infrastruture upgrade. people being very aggressive firewalls - gov buildings, corp offices, bank-grade security - can't join calls. believe impact small number of people. but didn't want toopen bridge and have 10-20% of people say cannot hear audio - would reduce trust in jitsi infrastructure.
[2020-10-27T16:17:06.974Z]  <cel>   ... didn't want to tell people to dial in . that is why switched on this call. not difficult to fix but takes time, need to figure out bug.
[2020-10-27T16:17:20.175Z]  <cel>   ... because had it working before, expect to get back to i very quickly when resolved this bug
[2020-10-27T16:17:41.487Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: chairs are working overhead at your benefit for your service. give us the benefit of the doubt rather than assuming the worst
[2020-10-27T16:17:50.040Z]  <heathervescent>    https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/138
[2020-10-27T16:17:58.510Z]  <cel>   ... let's move on to the next time, a really big success we are excited to move forward on
[2020-10-27T16:18:00.344Z]  <heathervescent>    https://w3c-ccg.github.io/workitem-process/
[2020-10-27T16:18:02.340Z]  <kimhd> https://w3c-ccg.github.io/workitem-process/
[2020-10-27T16:18:02.884Z]  <cel>   ... kim
[2020-10-27T16:18:29.474Z]  <cel>   kimhd: thank you. one of the items that heather is referring to, that chairs have been listening on.
[2020-10-27T16:18:45.839Z]  <cel>   ... part of it is the work item process. how to shepherd it through the draft process
[2020-10-27T16:18:59.050Z]  <cel>   ... a lot of it was learning what we do, documenting it. painful meetings where you discussed
[2020-10-27T16:19:12.228Z]  <cel>   ... final part converting it to respec, reducing complexity, the ramining confusing parts of the process
[2020-10-27T16:19:35.626Z]  <cel>   ... this now not proposing we release as draft. makes sense to keep as ongoing community draft, a notion formalized in this process
[2020-10-27T16:19:48.764Z]  <cel>   making the process more accessible for a broader range of work items
[2020-10-27T16:19:55.787Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:19:56.843Z]  <cel>   ... investigating
[2020-10-27T16:20:07.538Z]  <cel>   ... what we are used to vs what is required
[2020-10-27T16:20:13.933Z]  <cel>   ... we make it clear we are open to innovation on that front
[2020-10-27T16:20:22.762Z]  <cel>   ... think of this document as a work in progress
[2020-10-27T16:20:41.103Z]  <cel>   ... thanks everyone. as an ongoing community draft its open to comments, PRs, any time
[2020-10-27T16:20:45.310Z]  <kimhd> q+
[2020-10-27T16:20:48.683Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: question for community
[2020-10-27T16:20:49.991Z]  <manu>  q+
[2020-10-27T16:20:53.953Z]  <JeffO-StL> What is Zoom Link? Thx
[2020-10-27T16:20:58.009Z]  <heathervescent>    ack kimhd
[2020-10-27T16:20:59.984Z]  <mprorock_mesur_io> I would like a walkthrough
[2020-10-27T16:21:16.054Z]  <heathervescent>    Zoom link: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81174841680?pwd=Y040R0RhZE5vbktVVkZ5VGh1b3p3dz09
[2020-10-27T16:21:33.426Z]  <cel>   kimhd: talked about in past. don't want to necessarily expose people to the inner working of it. there are points - here is what happens when we propose a work item behind the scences
[2020-10-27T16:21:38.530Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:21:59.370Z]  <cel>   ... in reality ... github. prompts people to go do the simple thing rather than understanding the whole document
[2020-10-27T16:22:11.461Z]  <cel>   ... if people are interested in a summary based on this final revised version, we can go through that
[2020-10-27T16:22:21.440Z]  <kimhd> q+
[2020-10-27T16:22:28.505Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: that makes sense. what might make more sense is how to submit a new work item
[2020-10-27T16:22:39.540Z]  <cel>   ... a reference document rather than the actual practical process
[2020-10-27T16:22:41.367Z]  <heathervescent>    ack kimhd
[2020-10-27T16:22:50.180Z]  <cel>   kimhd: we have been updating the github entry page
[2020-10-27T16:22:53.246Z]  <kimhd> https://w3c-ccg.github.io/
[2020-10-27T16:23:09.775Z]  <markus_sabadello>  present+
[2020-10-27T16:23:16.235Z]  <cel>   kimhd: we have been ensuring that things like using irc, proposing a work item, ... should be up to date
[2020-10-27T16:23:17.213Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:23:19.958Z]  <cel>   ... any comments, let us know
[2020-10-27T16:23:29.446Z]  <cel>   ... we want to get it so you have a clear launch point to get started
[2020-10-27T16:23:32.984Z]  <heathervescent>    ack manu
[2020-10-27T16:24:05.139Z]  <cel>   manu: love the new document. really appreciate the work that the chairs and veryone else put in it. it is clear as far as i can tell, being that it started many years ago
[2020-10-27T16:24:37.040Z]  <cel>   .. need to help new members of community understand how things work here. don't need to take telecom time to do it. read through document, ask questions on the ML.
[2020-10-27T16:24:40.985Z]  <mprorock_mesur_io> q+
[2020-10-27T16:24:57.440Z]  <cel>   ... how the process works, queueing works, scribing works, answering questions.
[2020-10-27T16:25:10.084Z]  <manu>  +1 to W3C CCG 101 :)
[2020-10-27T16:25:19.072Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: idea for CCG 101 series to acclimate new folks
[2020-10-27T16:25:26.413Z]  <dmitriz_>  present+
[2020-10-27T16:25:29.647Z]  <heathervescent>    ack mprorock_mesur_io
[2020-10-27T16:25:38.420Z]  <wayne> q+
[2020-10-27T16:25:54.088Z]  <cel>   mprorock_mesur_io: thanks. from our side, we have been tracking CCG for a number of years now. big difference from moving to a tracking mode to an engagement mode. want to make sure we are stepping through this the right way
[2020-10-27T16:26:20.341Z]  <kimhd> This sounds great Mike
[2020-10-27T16:26:23.136Z]  <cel>   ... being helpful, engaging. did work with gentoo. periodic onboarding sessions, over irc, a time. volunteer a while, a month. rotate through folks coming into the community
[2020-10-27T16:26:37.427Z]  <cel>   ... causing an issue without meaning to
[2020-10-27T16:26:46.536Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: love it. adding an issue
[2020-10-27T16:27:00.495Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:27:02.735Z]  <cel>   ... really like. as the chairs have more open space on our plates, a really great thing for us to pick up
[2020-10-27T16:27:07.230Z]  <heathervescent>    ack wayne
[2020-10-27T16:27:10.831Z]  <kimhd> +1 from me too
[2020-10-27T16:27:22.590Z]  <cel>   wayne: big +1 to that. also great to run into fellow gentoo users. or sorry you had to go through that, depending on your experience
[2020-10-27T16:27:47.818Z]  <cel>   ... platform to engage with work item authors. onboarding, how to keep people engaged. a skill set in itself to be able to wrangle a group of volunteers across companies to move a spec forward
[2020-10-27T16:27:55.462Z]  <cel>   ... starting a mailing list thread
[2020-10-27T16:27:57.249Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:28:09.768Z]  <heathervescent>    https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/136
[2020-10-27T16:28:22.358Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: final issue. kick of discussion, learning from th last co-chair election
[2020-10-27T16:28:38.176Z]  <tayken>    +1 re: WI process. awesome work to all :)
[2020-10-27T16:28:41.194Z]  <cel>   ... chair vacancy next year. kim a huge supporter. busy transferring knowledge
[2020-10-27T16:28:49.531Z]  <cel>   ... we have been cleaning up to make it easy for a new chair
[2020-10-27T16:28:54.146Z]  <cel>   ... election
[2020-10-27T16:29:15.168Z]  <cel>   ... i'm a futurist, i like to plan. we are talking about succession planning in the chairs so we can have knowledge easily transferred
[2020-10-27T16:29:32.385Z]  <cel>   ... kim's still going to be here, part of the community. we love her. we just want to give her a little of a break
[2020-10-27T16:29:49.510Z]  <cel>   ... there were a variety of comments based on the last election. i was not privy to how it worked as i was running for it
[2020-10-27T16:30:01.915Z]  <cel>   ... there is this issue open, want to have discussion, come up with an election process
[2020-10-27T16:30:17.156Z]  <cel>   ... that we will be mostly comfortable with. make sure enough time for voting. clarity when we announce winners
[2020-10-27T16:30:24.469Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:30:26.596Z]  <cel>   ... reached out to christopher allen but he was unable to join us today
[2020-10-27T16:30:43.183Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:30:45.771Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: does anyone have thoughts on tracking this or addressing this issue?
[2020-10-27T16:30:47.337Z]  <manu>  q+ bengo
[2020-10-27T16:30:54.751Z]  <heathervescent>    ack manu
[2020-10-27T16:31:04.641Z]  <cel>   manu: tried to put ben on the queue, he had a question in chat
[2020-10-27T16:31:11.654Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: ben
[2020-10-27T16:31:25.833Z]  <cel>   bengo: question about phone number on CCG mailing list
[2020-10-27T16:31:37.892Z]  <cel>   ... i also try to track the community, see phone number, it never works. am i wrong to rely on it?
[2020-10-27T16:31:45.733Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: are you talking about logging into zoom?
[2020-10-27T16:31:56.477Z]  <cel>   bengo: ccg website does not say anything about zoom
[2020-10-27T16:32:02.124Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: were you at the beginning of the meeting?
[2020-10-27T16:32:04.135Z]  <cel>   bengo: no
[2020-10-27T16:32:11.666Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: we are in process of switching
[2020-10-27T16:32:15.982Z]  <manu>  q+
[2020-10-27T16:32:16.125Z]  <cel>   ... normally have call-in numbers
[2020-10-27T16:32:23.405Z]  <cel>   bengo: managed to find it
[2020-10-27T16:32:41.034Z]  <cel>   ... have before sent people to this url. hard to get on call if phone doesn't work
[2020-10-27T16:32:47.415Z]  <manu>  q-
[2020-10-27T16:32:59.094Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: this is result of us changing, upgrading or meeting infrastructure, of which we are in the messy middle right now
[2020-10-27T16:33:08.754Z]  <cel>   .... goal is for us to switch over to jitsi which has call in numbers
[2020-10-27T16:33:22.778Z]  <cel>   ... due to technical reasons this meeting is held on zoom
[2020-10-27T16:33:49.074Z]  <cel>   ... info on mailing list. understand less than ideal for your team. unusual time right now. switching from old hard-coded audio-only irc version into more accessible meeting structure
[2020-10-27T16:34:02.039Z]  <cel>   ... first choice is jitsi, but coming across, slowly fixing various bugs
[2020-10-27T16:34:21.528Z]  <cel>   ... depending on state of jitsi system may make executive decision to fall back to zoom rather than ...
[2020-10-27T16:34:28.174Z]  <cel>   ... suggest get on mailing list
[2020-10-27T16:34:31.588Z]  <kimhd> q+
[2020-10-27T16:34:41.748Z]  <cel>   ... i personally send that link from twitter
[2020-10-27T16:34:44.458Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:34:49.453Z]  <cel>   ... would like to get more organized
[2020-10-27T16:34:55.049Z]  <heathervescent>    ack bengo
[2020-10-27T16:35:06.328Z]  <cel>   bengo: if meeting normally going through jitsi, will number - digital bazar - normally work with jitsi?
[2020-10-27T16:35:26.331Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:35:28.772Z]  <cel>   manu: we will update the number. there is a new number that will get you through the bridge. we will add a EU number. anyone that wants a number for their country, please ask
[2020-10-27T16:35:36.433Z]  <cel>   ... adding number costs about $12/year
[2020-10-27T16:35:46.822Z]  <cel>   ... goal is to support phone call in for members that need it
[2020-10-27T16:35:52.030Z]  <cel>   ... it will be there with jitsi
[2020-10-27T16:36:14.857Z]  <cel>   wayne: we hear you. will do a better job, opening issue to better communicate where active info is
[2020-10-27T16:36:16.260Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:36:18.606Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: volunteer
[2020-10-27T16:36:21.084Z]  <heathervescent>    ack kimhd
[2020-10-27T16:36:30.100Z]  <cel>   kimhd: i interpret bengo's question a different way
[2020-10-27T16:36:53.905Z]  <cel>   ... one thing we haven't done in CCG is send out standing invites. i tend to interact with my life via calendar. if not on calendar, doesn't exist to me. if there is not a link in there, all messed up
[2020-10-27T16:37:03.157Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:37:07.183Z]  <cel>   ... task force: send out invices, keep up to date. don't know why we haven't done it in CCG
[2020-10-27T16:37:15.288Z]  <cel>   ... could do something to let people optionally add it to their calendar
[2020-10-27T16:37:20.520Z]  <cel>   ... could be an easier way to coordinate
[2020-10-27T16:37:34.716Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: same. i live and die by my calendar. manually add to my calendar.
[2020-10-27T16:37:41.071Z]  <cel>   ... occasionally some people ask me to add them to it
[2020-10-27T16:37:49.722Z]  <cel>   ... could add, perhaps for task forces as well
[2020-10-27T16:37:53.581Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:38:06.922Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: onto the main event now, a little behind time, that's ok.
[2020-10-27T16:38:22.381Z]  <cel>   ... today we want to talk about iiw (Internet Identity Workshop)
[2020-10-27T16:38:26.349Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:38:31.104Z]  <wayne> q}+
[2020-10-27T16:38:31.919Z]  <wayne> q+
[2020-10-27T16:38:32.773Z]  <cel>   ... sessions you liked, what was interesting
[2020-10-27T16:38:37.561Z]  <cel>   ... put yourself on queue to make a comment
[2020-10-27T16:38:38.185Z]  <heathervescent>    ack wayne
[2020-10-27T16:38:40.320Z]  <agropper>  q+
[2020-10-27T16:38:52.900Z]  <cel>   wayne: exciting discussion that has happened, across different standards organizations, interested groups, etc.
[2020-10-27T16:39:10.968Z]  <cel>   ... seems to be opportunity for convergence. extreme overlap
[2020-10-27T16:39:25.289Z]  <cel>   ... WebID, CHAPI. in the area of extending browser api towards these things
[2020-10-27T16:39:35.965Z]  <cel>   ... openid psyop profile. user can be their own idp
[2020-10-27T16:39:50.413Z]  <cel>   ... how does that relate to web browser api extensions, did, resolution thereof
[2020-10-27T16:40:03.651Z]  <cel>   ... discussions happening in groups at DIF, several mailing lists
[2020-10-27T16:40:06.127Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:40:16.497Z]  <cel>   ... if browser support, could have huge implications
[2020-10-27T16:40:22.844Z]  <heathervescent>    ack agropper
[2020-10-27T16:40:35.368Z]  <cel>   agropper: to add to that, there was an interesting session, mini face to face on authorization, secure data stores
[2020-10-27T16:40:41.080Z]  <kimhd> q+
[2020-10-27T16:41:10.345Z]  <heathervescent>    ack kimhd
[2020-10-27T16:41:11.956Z]  <cel>   ... a lot of OGs on te oauth2 side, gnapps side, capabilities side, were there. some progress made. potentially a harmonization of how gnapp and zkaps work together. not sure if would work out, but was progress
[2020-10-27T16:41:27.304Z]  <cel>   kimhd: i had a session with orie and daryl ? on wallets
[2020-10-27T16:41:46.026Z]  <cel>   ... building on wallet discussions had here. read through literature, concluded the way we define wallets is dumb but how in secure storage
[2020-10-27T16:42:08.454Z]  <cel>   ... getting clarity. hope to write up results soon
[2020-10-27T16:42:12.842Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:42:18.525Z]  <snorre>    What was the name of this? Kim?
[2020-10-27T16:42:26.381Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: let's move to the main event, John, are you ready to tell us about what you are doing
[2020-10-27T16:42:35.557Z]  <kimhd> not-so-smart wallets
[2020-10-27T16:42:37.888Z]  <cel>   John IV: hello, my name is john. representing Actual DAO (?)
[2020-10-27T16:42:40.231Z]  <snorre>    Thanks :D
[2020-10-27T16:42:41.107Z]  <cel>   ... team on call
[2020-10-27T16:42:47.877Z]  <cel>   ... sharing screen
[2020-10-27T16:42:53.696Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: link to slides
[2020-10-27T16:43:07.661Z]  <johnx25bd> https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/147bfVk_0AGYkMhFTjzEp7v2S_sYN6_ZQpf3I52NEN90/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-10-27T16:43:30.363Z]  <cel>   johnx25bd: here to talk today about Astral Protocol new DID method spec designing to identify spacial data assets
[2020-10-27T16:43:49.601Z]  <cel>   ... our background. working with this team. intimidated by brainpower in the room. not experts in DIDs or VCs
[2020-10-27T16:43:57.932Z]  <cel>   ... presenting work to validate our thinking, get feedback
[2020-10-27T16:44:08.538Z]  <manu>  Don't be intimidated, we're as scared of you as you are of us! :P
[2020-10-27T16:44:11.199Z]  <cel>   ... at rebooting web of trust in prague in 2019. met few of you there, dabbling at the edges
[2020-10-27T16:44:24.538Z]  <cel>   ... technical director. congestion zones on smart contracts
[2020-10-27T16:44:24.574Z]  <by_caballero>  oops did anyone get that deck link?
[2020-10-27T16:44:37.134Z]  <cel>   ... problem: need data registry to represent borders on congestion zones
[2020-10-27T16:44:45.989Z]  <cel>   ... thinking of how spatial ... web3
[2020-10-27T16:45:02.026Z]  <cel>   ... joined kernel fellowship, met Jao and Jared
[2020-10-27T16:45:08.454Z]  <cel>   ... smart contracts don't know where you are
[2020-10-27T16:45:16.793Z]  <cel>   ... talking about potential of spatial based applications
[2020-10-27T16:45:38.736Z]  <cel>   ... location is an intrinsic property of any (physical) individual.
[2020-10-27T16:45:54.988Z]  <cel>   ... all of our (traditional) governance systems are based on where you are. walk across border, subject to different rules
[2020-10-27T16:46:07.533Z]  <cel>   ... connected world, thinking of how to bring into web3
[2020-10-27T16:46:17.133Z]  <cel>   ... govern objects based on web3 in privacy-preserving way
[2020-10-27T16:46:24.106Z]  <cel>   ... spatial finance
[2020-10-27T16:46:36.073Z]  <cel>   ... using satellite imagery to inform financial decision making process
[2020-10-27T16:46:45.560Z]  <cel>   ... linked with world of DeFi. prototyping
[2020-10-27T16:46:48.451Z]  <cel>   ... insurance, supply chains
[2020-10-27T16:46:58.042Z]  <cel>   ... what kind of location-based dapps could be enabled by this
[2020-10-27T16:47:09.497Z]  <cel>   ... robust land registries, AR, routing, fitness tracking
[2020-10-27T16:47:22.655Z]  <cel>   ... location data, spatial data tech fundamental to how web is useful
[2020-10-27T16:47:27.791Z]  <cel>   ... web3 not complete without it
[2020-10-27T16:47:36.925Z]  <cel>   ... geo did
[2020-10-27T16:47:51.684Z]  <cel>   ... paris 2019 project, tried to write a library of topological functions in solidity
[2020-10-27T16:48:03.946Z]  <cel>   ... preserve privacy of sensors but check to see if they are in a particular location
[2020-10-27T16:48:12.020Z]  <cel>   ... test to see if point is inside polygon, based on EVM
[2020-10-27T16:48:21.860Z]  <cel>   ... spatial analytics library. terfJS
[2020-10-27T16:48:33.056Z]  <cel>   ... apply policies to car based on whether inside or outside of zone
[2020-10-27T16:48:49.306Z]  <cel>   ... possible, but gas costs balloon with size of polygon. looping through vertices
[2020-10-27T16:48:58.220Z]  <cel>   ... not feasible on ethereum main net
[2020-10-27T16:49:18.505Z]  <heathervescent>    Juan --> https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/147bfVk_0AGYkMhFTjzEp7v2S_sYN6_ZQpf3I52NEN90/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-10-27T16:49:24.148Z]  <cel>   ... other ways. parallel, eth london. created project Geolocker, verifiable spatial data registry for self-soverign users
[2020-10-27T16:49:30.380Z]  <cel>   ... zone administrators
[2020-10-27T16:49:40.544Z]  <cel>   ... administer policies, but they would be self-sovereign
[2020-10-27T16:50:00.379Z]  <cel>   ... register and upload vector geometries (geoJSON) to backend. 3box, also ArWeave
[2020-10-27T16:50:15.546Z]  <cel>   ... hierarchical soverignty. register zone, need to get approval from government
[2020-10-27T16:50:30.980Z]  <cel>   bengo: Hey Astral team. If ethereum main net isnâ€™t working nicely for GIS applications, Iâ€™d love to learn if we can make this alternative work better. https://sdk.dfinity.org/docs/index.html
[2020-10-27T16:50:48.883Z]  <cel>   johnx25bd: topological overlap, want to detect border dispute, arbitrate.
[2020-10-27T16:50:55.525Z]  <cel>   ... hierarchical approval question
[2020-10-27T16:51:18.220Z]  <cel>   ... seems to be the point where VCs would come in. authority over jurisdiction issue credential that zone is valid
[2020-10-27T16:51:35.120Z]  <cel>   ... fused to Hyperaware. spatial governance protocol for connected devices
[2020-10-27T16:51:47.124Z]  <cel>   ... created system of smart contracts and distributed storage.
[2020-10-27T16:51:55.589Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:52:02.442Z]  <cel>   ... have secure enclaves on devices. jurisdiction registry where they register
[2020-10-27T16:52:28.004Z]  <cel>   ... self-soveriegn users. privacy for zone administrators. check to see if in polygon without revealing point or polygon
[2020-10-27T16:52:37.412Z]  <cel>   device owners register DID on IoTeX
[2020-10-27T16:52:49.585Z]  <cel>   ... zone owners register GeoDID
[2020-10-27T16:53:02.552Z]  <cel>   ... validator in enclave tests if point in polygon
[2020-10-27T16:53:21.767Z]  <cel>   .. in validator, makes transaction in enclave, submit to smart contract transfering contract to zone administrator
[2020-10-27T16:53:38.558Z]  <cel>   ... zone owner encrypt data with validator's public key. would not reveal details but could be tested in enclave
[2020-10-27T16:53:40.313Z]  <agropper>  q+
[2020-10-27T16:53:46.237Z]  <cel>   ... pairwise DIDs for preserving privacy
[2020-10-27T16:54:07.562Z]  <cel>   ... alpha implementation of GeoDID. register DID. in document, have reference to GeoJSON with outline of vector geometry
[2020-10-27T16:54:13.629Z]  <by_caballero>  https://www.amazon.com/Seeing-like-State-Certain-Condition/dp/0300078153 <-- The assumption that all sovereigns track their territory as a set of polygons and Cartesian coordinates reminds me of this book, which has a whole chapter about the exceptions (thanks to both Kaliya Young and Aragon Black's Danny Shavit for forcing me to eventual read it).
[2020-10-27T16:54:26.731Z]  <cel>   ... zone registry interfaces. someone like greater london authority could come on and register zones
[2020-10-27T16:54:36.233Z]  <cel>   ... we represent geometery in services array
[2020-10-27T16:54:44.926Z]  <cel>   ... single DID, administrator could own multiple geometries
[2020-10-27T16:55:07.161Z]  <cel>   ... service endpoint point to arweave geojson
[2020-10-27T16:55:14.963Z]  <cel>   ... draft. service object could be valid geojson
[2020-10-27T16:55:29.327Z]  <cel>   ... decentralized finance application
[2020-10-27T16:55:40.954Z]  <manu>  q+ to ask for more time for this presentation, and about hashlinks for off-chain data and using VCs to express all of this stuff instead of directly in DID Document.
[2020-10-27T16:55:52.801Z]  <cel>   ... bond issuance. 10 year bond. every year, structure of bond updatd based on input based on value derived from analysis of satellite imagery
[2020-10-27T16:56:21.834Z]  <cel>   ... satellite image of air quality. submitted every year. updated what buyer have to pay
[2020-10-27T16:56:31.429Z]  <tayken>    @manu polygonapocolypse -- my new band name, thx :)
[2020-10-27T16:56:36.538Z]  <cel>   ... incentive to improve air quality. fork contract, linked to sustainability metrics
[2020-10-27T16:56:42.061Z]  <mprorock_mesur_io> how would this differ from using a json-ld location object in a vc or did - and having a services layer with normal geospatial processing on the backend side of things for analysis, e.g. geopandas, etc? - or is this just a proposed standard for handling those kinds of work flows?
[2020-10-27T16:56:54.141Z]  <cel>   ... the approaches we took that we realize how leads to DIDs
[2020-10-27T16:57:16.673Z]  <cel>   ... a DID to identiyy spatial data assets. raster image, or sensor data
[2020-10-27T16:57:31.071Z]  <cel>   ... modelling to be compliant to spatial temporal asset specification
[2020-10-27T16:57:38.223Z]  <cel>   ... standardized way to search for raster data sets
[2020-10-27T16:57:56.804Z]  <cel>   ... want to build on tools they have. amazing for collating spatial data assets
[2020-10-27T16:58:21.145Z]  <cel>   vector: web-native way to represent vector spatial data. not absolutely necessary. could represent a shape file. store in service endpoints array
[2020-10-27T16:58:23.514Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T16:58:35.380Z]  <tayken>    Ha, wayne...but of course
[2020-10-27T16:58:39.431Z]  <cel>   ... doing early research, alpha prototyping. one geoDID to control multiple spatial data assets
[2020-10-27T16:58:52.840Z]  <by_caballero>  q+
[2020-10-27T16:58:55.132Z]  <cel>   ... looking into transferability, rights to access
[2020-10-27T16:58:57.297Z]  <Orie_> very interesting work, please comment regarding the privacy implications of location data in service endpoints here: https://github.com/w3c/did-core/issues/382
[2020-10-27T16:59:05.032Z]  <cel>   ... have specification in progress
[2020-10-27T16:59:17.247Z]  <cel>   ... drafted reference implementation of the code
[2020-10-27T16:59:21.910Z]  <cel>   ... prototype UI
[2020-10-27T16:59:36.576Z]  <cel>   ... for registering. npm modules, client-side
[2020-10-27T16:59:43.525Z]  <manu>  q-
[2020-10-27T17:00:09.792Z]  <by_caballero>  email address for feedback?
[2020-10-27T17:00:16.272Z]  <tayken>    spatial data sans satellite -- similar to Foam? https://foam.space
[2020-10-27T17:00:18.308Z]  <cel>   ... looking for feedback
[2020-10-27T17:00:20.039Z]  <by_caballero>  was actually asking about people working on similar problems :D
[2020-10-27T17:00:21.411Z]  <agropper>  q-
[2020-10-27T17:00:30.680Z]  <cel>   heathervescent: no time to go over time today
[2020-10-27T17:00:47.545Z]  <cel>   johnx25bd: adoption, government. twitter @astraldao, gitcoin grant up
[2020-10-27T17:01:01.361Z]  <kimhd> Thanks for scribing cel!
[2020-10-27T17:01:05.063Z]  <wayne> thank you cel!!
[2020-10-27T17:01:09.837Z]  <by_caballero>  thanks cel
[2020-10-27T17:01:11.682Z]  <johnx25bd> contact@astraldao.org
[2020-10-27T17:01:58.689Z]  <by_caballero>  be safe everyone
[2020-10-27T17:02:54.505Z]  <wayne> ack by_caballero
[2020-10-27T17:02:56.889Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T17:06:23.583Z]  <Matthew_Basirico>  Thanks for the invite Jessica and Melissa
[2020-10-27T17:07:52.566Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T17:11:29.723Z]  <DavidC>    Is the Zoom working?
[2020-10-27T17:11:44.895Z]  <Guest1>    Yes
[2020-10-27T17:12:06.972Z]  <heathervescent>    @DavidC yes, you should have a link from your email
[2020-10-27T17:15:45.521Z]  <snorre>    Is this the irc for the wallet event?
[2020-10-27T17:15:54.614Z]  <wayne> yes, it is. welcome snorre!
[2020-10-27T17:15:58.927Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T17:16:59.057Z]  <readdytop> Exit
[2020-10-27T17:19:33.744Z]  <chews_>    howdy heather it's the chew you know :-)
[2020-10-27T17:19:55.477Z]  <chews_>    hahaha, it has been too long miss
[2020-10-27T17:20:37.635Z]  <chews_>    good work here... and we should talk to a standards track for documents
[2020-10-27T17:24:02.697Z]  <Anil_John_>    We will be opening up for Q&A after Sharon has provided her overview...
[2020-10-27T17:25:20.336Z]  <tayken_>   DoE Landscape Analysis: https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmdEnhQcWHTY4ndotRs1YRpeTdjZGAyisHz8buqfYidkP2
[2020-10-27T17:26:48.538Z]  <agropper>  q+ To ask about consent standards?
[2020-10-27T17:26:52.246Z]  <wayne> q+ what color is the sky?
[2020-10-27T17:26:56.569Z]  <heathervescent>    This is an example of queuing:
[2020-10-27T17:27:00.917Z]  <wayne> q-
[2020-10-27T17:27:01.668Z]  <heathervescent>    q+ what is the color of the sky?
[2020-10-27T17:27:12.488Z]  <heathervescent>    Now I want to remove myself from the queue
[2020-10-27T17:27:14.013Z]  <heathervescent>    q-
[2020-10-27T17:27:42.819Z]  <heathervescent>    So if you have a question, please put q+ and then type in your question.
[2020-10-27T17:27:43.904Z]  <wayne> ack agropper
[2020-10-27T17:27:57.681Z]  <Matthew_Basirico>  Q+ Can you give us an example of a company that successfully got through this program?
[2020-10-27T17:28:16.517Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T17:28:55.968Z]  <chews_>    q+ are DHS oracles possible? meaning, can I have an API to the truthiness of things?
[2020-10-27T17:28:58.693Z]  <Nader> Q+ Does SVIP have a particular goal in mind when it comes to using biometrics in the wallet?
[2020-10-27T17:29:18.354Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T17:29:18.994Z]  <kimhd> q?
[2020-10-27T17:29:40.735Z]  <heathervescent>    ack Matthew_Basirico
[2020-10-27T17:29:55.772Z]  <HMajeed>   What are the top 3 features that you were looking for in the digital wallet design?
[2020-10-27T17:29:57.314Z]  <Matthew_Basirico>  thank you!
[2020-10-27T17:30:32.906Z]  <heathervescent>    ack chews_
[2020-10-27T17:30:33.559Z]  <kimhd> ack chews_
[2020-10-27T17:30:54.157Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T17:31:06.016Z]  <chews_>    Q+ so along those lines, supply chain
[2020-10-27T17:31:08.026Z]  <manu>  q+ to ask how the wallet work will go through security engineering to prevent attacks like information phishing?
[2020-10-27T17:31:16.994Z]  <manu>  q-
[2020-10-27T17:31:17.135Z]  <wayne> ack Nader
[2020-10-27T17:31:21.955Z]  <kimhd> q?
[2020-10-27T17:31:23.095Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T17:31:38.428Z]  <Alfonso>   q+
[2020-10-27T17:31:39.309Z]  <chews_>    q+ we're asking what tech stack have ya chosen?
[2020-10-27T17:31:55.277Z]  <agropper>  q+ to ask about the wallet interacting with oracles (that communicate VC directly with verifiers without a holder in-between)
[2020-10-27T17:32:01.071Z]  <manu>  q+ How will the wallet UI work go through security engineering to prevent attacks like information phishing from hostile nation states of citizen data?
[2020-10-27T17:32:05.066Z]  <chews_>    Q+ are ya using ethereum standards? things atop the bitcoin protocol?
[2020-10-27T17:32:12.593Z]  <Alfonso>   How might we provide a demonstration and stress test for this audience? Currently we have a product that is being used and we believe we could have a 90% solution.
[2020-10-27T17:32:30.746Z]  <smagennis> q+ : Does the desire for selective disclosure also imply a desire for the ability to negotiate disclosure between parties?
[2020-10-27T17:32:37.333Z]  <HMajeed>   q+ What are the top 3 features that you were looking for in the digital wallet design?
[2020-10-27T17:32:54.406Z]  <manu>  q+ Alfonso - How might we provide a demonstration and stress test for this audience? Currently we have a product that is being used and we believe we could have a 90% solution.
[2020-10-27T17:32:54.575Z]  <kimhd> q?
[2020-10-27T17:32:54.789Z]  <heathervescent>    ack chews_
[2020-10-27T17:33:01.616Z]  <Milan> in the case of decentralized identity verifiable credentials - how do you see DHS or other business models being disrupted such? the model for decentrlaized identity is that an issuer issues credentials to a holder and the holder presents those credentials to a verifier without a verifier going back to an issuer. a lot of issuers make money on verifiers going back to them. how does this change from a business perspective?
[2020-10-27T17:33:11.995Z]  <kimhd> q?
[2020-10-27T17:33:15.433Z]  <wayne> please use q+ prior to your question to be added to the queue, Milan! thanks
[2020-10-27T17:33:19.677Z]  <heathervescent>    ack Alfonso
[2020-10-27T17:33:29.987Z]  <Jonny> q+ do you consider key management/recovery as part of wallet design?
[2020-10-27T17:34:14.334Z]  <wayne> ack chews_
[2020-10-27T17:34:16.455Z]  <arshadnoor>    q+ While this forum is focused on wallet design, where can I find the security requirements for the digital wallet? Is anything published? Thank you.
[2020-10-27T17:34:48.603Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T17:34:51.624Z]  <wayne> ack agropper
[2020-10-27T17:34:53.986Z]  <heathervescent>    ack chews_
[2020-10-27T17:35:14.249Z]  <chews_>    Q+ basically, im asking you've clearly down the road on implementations for supply chain,   or for identity use case, but are the things proposed today actual work product? meaning are you running testnets or smart-contracts that demonstrate the these usecases
[2020-10-27T17:35:42.469Z]  <Milan> to make decentralized identity scalable and practical, there needs to be corresponding governance frameworks. what is the business and legal convening and governance framework definition happening to associated with tech exploration?
[2020-10-27T17:35:51.490Z]  <wayne> ack manu
[2020-10-27T17:36:31.435Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T17:36:53.555Z]  <cdani_00>  q+ Has the Federal Government characterized the types of documents that are expected to be considered verified and if so which ones?
[2020-10-27T17:36:59.375Z]  <wayne> ack smagennis
[2020-10-27T17:37:11.693Z]  <HMajeed>   Will you be using a third-part independent blockchain as the credentials registry or gov created blockchain?
[2020-10-27T17:37:17.575Z]  <heathervescent>    chews this is stuff that gets discussed at the CCG as well.
[2020-10-27T17:37:21.917Z]  <HMajeed>   q+ Will you be using a third-part independent blockchain as the credentials registry or gov created blockchain?
[2020-10-27T17:37:26.305Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T17:37:27.876Z]  <Milan> q+ to make decentralized identity scalable and practical, there needs to be corresponding governance frameworks. what is the business and legal convening and governance framework definition happening to associated with tech exploration?
[2020-10-27T17:37:48.260Z]  <Chris_Floersch>    Question:  What mechanisms are employed to achieve interoperability - ?  ie - API's, or other tools?
[2020-10-27T17:37:49.926Z]  <Milan> q+ in the case of decentralized identity verifiable credentials - how do you see DHS or other business models being disrupted such? the model for decentrlaized identity is that an issuer issues credentials to a holder and the holder presents those credentials to a verifier without a verifier going back to an issuer. a lot of issuers make money on verifiers going back to them. how does this change from a business perspective?
[2020-10-27T17:37:58.335Z]  <Jonny> q+ were any designers or potential users consulted in the judging process?
[2020-10-27T17:38:11.579Z]  <tayken_>   q+ Are there examples of challenge winners/work leading to policy change (open to any/all panelists)? Any recommendations for durability/sustainability?
[2020-10-27T17:38:11.745Z]  <by_caballero>  @Milan: The short answer is that the governance work tends to happen in different places, where different experts gather and work under different charters/scopes.  There is the Trust-over-IP foundation, Kantara Initiative, Sovrin Foundation, A New Governance, and MyData all working on SSI and SSI-related governance work of various kinds.
[2020-10-27T17:38:44.254Z]  <kimhd> agropper: can you clarift this question "(to ask about the wallet interacting with oracles (that communicate VC directly with verifiers without a holder in-between))."
[2020-10-27T17:38:54.921Z]  <kimhd> (clarify)
[2020-10-27T17:39:40.905Z]  <wayne> ack HMajeedq?
[2020-10-27T17:39:42.672Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T17:39:45.153Z]  <wayne> ack HMajeed
[2020-10-27T17:39:48.464Z]  <agropper>  Consent to present a VC directly to a verifier
[2020-10-27T17:40:00.596Z]  <norm>  q+ How does an agency validate the identity of the citizen requesting a credential to be stored in his wallet?
[2020-10-27T17:40:06.206Z]  <kimhd> agropper: ie. are you asking "will the wallet interact with oracles?" and "will the wallet communicate VC directly...?" we're having a hard time parsing the question
[2020-10-27T17:40:41.221Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T17:40:55.274Z]  <agropper>  yes - interact with issuers as oracles
[2020-10-27T17:41:04.404Z]  <chews_>    @heather, I'll show ya the demo later of using a passport to bootstrap blockchain id
[2020-10-27T17:41:09.373Z]  <Nav_>  Question: How do we provide consumers/end users with a level of assurance that the wallet is safe and secure? What happens if they download a wallet built by a bad actor that steals their information?
[2020-10-27T17:41:30.144Z]  <kimhd> agropper: sorry, I need it in the form of a question we can ask. I'm still struggling to see the question
[2020-10-27T17:42:01.000Z]  <agropper>  never mind
[2020-10-27T17:42:05.757Z]  <sharonleu> Submit your project to the Dept of Ed's Blockchain Innovation Challenge by 10/30: https://www.acenet.edu/Research-Insights/Pages/Blockchain-Innovation-Challenge.aspx
[2020-10-27T17:47:04.945Z]  <wayne> https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/ <- join the credentials community group here!!
[2020-10-27T17:47:30.263Z]  <wayne> our mailing list is a lot of fun and we talk about privacy, data formats, anti-trust, etc. everyone is invited!
[2020-10-27T17:48:29.301Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T17:50:43.398Z]  <Anil_John_>    Manu - What is your question?
[2020-10-27T17:52:19.557Z]  <wayne> ack manu
[2020-10-27T17:52:23.636Z]  <wayne> ack Jonny
[2020-10-27T17:52:29.237Z]  <wayne> (these are spillover from the previous panel)
[2020-10-27T17:52:36.623Z]  <wayne> ack arshadnoor
[2020-10-27T17:52:38.417Z]  <wayne> ack chews_
[2020-10-27T17:52:44.962Z]  <wayne> ack cdani_00
[2020-10-27T17:52:46.811Z]  <wayne> ack HMajeed
[2020-10-27T17:52:49.166Z]  <wayne> ack Milan
[2020-10-27T17:52:51.365Z]  <wayne> ack Milan
[2020-10-27T17:52:52.837Z]  <wayne> ack Jonny
[2020-10-27T17:52:59.060Z]  <wayne> ack tayken_
[2020-10-27T17:53:07.153Z]  <wayne> ack norm
[2020-10-27T17:53:29.378Z]  <wayne> Great questions everyone, my condolences for running out of time to ask them all!
[2020-10-27T17:53:57.663Z]  <wayne> Please bring them to CCG, and we will make space for them. Post them to the mailing list and I bet you'll get some great answers
[2020-10-27T17:54:07.146Z]  <wayne> https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/
[2020-10-27T17:56:43.438Z]  <kimhd> I'll take "do you consider key management/recovery as part of wallet design?"
[2020-10-27T17:57:03.702Z]  <by_caballero>  link to agenda of Product Manager's group: https://docs.google.com/document/d/13CU7du7m4BaHasFJJQuSYG0mk7BT51V3n7RAa100UZU/edit#heading=h.8ouepqg2pqfw
[2020-10-27T17:58:03.250Z]  <kimhd> Question:
[2020-10-27T17:58:06.089Z]  <by_caballero>  it's on DIF's events calendar if you'd like to subscribe to biweekly reminders about their meetings: https://bit.ly/dif-calendar
[2020-10-27T17:58:06.193Z]  <kimhd> 1. While this forum is focused on wallet design, where can I find the security requirements for the digital wallet? Is anything published? Thank you.
[2020-10-27T17:58:24.041Z]  <kimhd> 2. ow might we provide a demonstration and stress test for this audience? Currently we have a product that is being used and we believe we could have a 90% solution.
[2020-10-27T17:58:35.347Z]  <kimhd> 3. (Will you be using a third-part independent blockchain as the credentials registry or gov created blockchain?
[2020-10-27T17:58:52.185Z]  <agropper>  I will ask my question again: Does the functionality exposed by a wallet include consenting for a verifier to connect and get a credential directly from an issuer or oracle?
[2020-10-27T17:59:14.962Z]  <kimhd> ack agropper
[2020-10-27T17:59:21.526Z]  <kimhd> 4. I will ask my question again: Does the functionality exposed by a wallet include consenting for a verifier to connect and get a credential directly from an issuer or oracle?
[2020-10-27T17:59:50.165Z]  <arshadnoor>    q+ Has a threat model been developed for the digital wallet?
[2020-10-27T18:00:56.638Z]  <JoseCantera>   q?
[2020-10-27T18:01:03.492Z]  <JoseCantera>   q+ What is the timeframe to reach the Rec stage for the DID specs?
[2020-10-27T18:01:07.883Z]  <JoseCantera>   q?
[2020-10-27T18:01:38.976Z]  <kimhd> q+ to ask (in case there is time for additional questions from chat) Will you be using a third-part independent blockchain as the credentials registry or gov created blockchain
[2020-10-27T18:01:39.787Z]  <Maarten>   @by_caballero Link to calendar is broken
[2020-10-27T18:02:00.324Z]  <by_caballero>  https://lists.identity.foundation/g/id-productmanagers
[2020-10-27T18:03:25.498Z]  <by_caballero>  haha thanks Maarten, not sure, seems to wrk here-- but you have to be auth'd to google, which is probably a non-starter for many people in this community :D
[2020-10-27T18:03:50.203Z]  <by_caballero>  the email list might be a better link anyways, since the chairs are good about emailing out agendas a day or two before each meeting
[2020-10-27T18:08:12.064Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T18:08:35.243Z]  <Matthew_Basirico>  This is awesome, I definitely want to talk to this company hereafter
[2020-10-27T18:12:24.316Z]  <Dave>  q+ How does the app verify the recipient of credentials is who they claim to be?
[2020-10-27T18:12:24.814Z]  <wayne> q?q?
[2020-10-27T18:13:44.906Z]  <wayne> ack arshadnoor
[2020-10-27T18:13:45.425Z]  <kimhd> q?
[2020-10-27T18:13:53.454Z]  <kimhd> q-
[2020-10-27T18:13:59.388Z]  <kimhd> ack JoseCantera
[2020-10-27T18:14:27.462Z]  <kimhd> ack Dave
[2020-10-27T18:14:33.444Z]  <arshadnoor>    Yes, it was from the previous session
[2020-10-27T18:14:38.975Z]  <John_Stevens>  q+Is it possible to revoke shared credentials?
[2020-10-27T18:15:05.951Z]  <heathervescent>    ack John_Stevens
[2020-10-27T18:16:44.832Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T18:17:21.339Z]  <wayne> please add any questions to indicio to q+!
[2020-10-27T18:17:34.002Z]  <wayne> for example,
[2020-10-27T18:17:47.361Z]  <wayne> q+ indicio, what about X?
[2020-10-27T18:17:54.384Z]  <wayne> ack wayne
[2020-10-27T18:22:38.301Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T18:23:04.459Z]  <John_Stevens>  q+as before, does the interface allow for revocation after sharing?
[2020-10-27T18:23:10.833Z]  <wayne> ack John_Stevens
[2020-10-27T18:23:52.642Z]  <Jonny> q+ I didn't see that there was any terms for consent (something like GDPRs "statement of purpose"), is there a reason for this?
[2020-10-27T18:23:57.215Z]  <HMajeed>   q+ do you have remote verificatiob by scanning QR in-person verification
[2020-10-27T18:24:18.736Z]  <chews_>    Q+ how to these systems become legacy systems..... how do these systems outlive their makers?
[2020-10-27T18:24:30.830Z]  <wayne> ack Jonny
[2020-10-27T18:24:31.517Z]  <John_Stevens>  q+to clarify, can the credential holder rescind the credentials provided to the requestor
[2020-10-27T18:24:33.338Z]  <kimhd> ack Jonny
[2020-10-27T18:24:47.856Z]  <Dave>  q+ What if any, information from the credential is verified against the downloaded credential before adding to wallet?
[2020-10-27T18:25:13.125Z]  <Dave>  q-
[2020-10-27T18:25:34.521Z]  <Dave>  q+ What if any, information from the downloaded credential is verified against the wallet identification before adding to wallet?
[2020-10-27T18:25:51.189Z]  <wayne> ack HMajeed
[2020-10-27T18:25:55.929Z]  <chews_>    Q+ are these opensource systems?
[2020-10-27T18:26:17.515Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T18:26:18.134Z]  <agropper>  q+ to ask about how Contacts, Messaging, and Credentials overlap with existing functionality on the device. Should they be integrated?
[2020-10-27T18:26:37.906Z]  <wayne> ack chews_
[2020-10-27T18:28:04.433Z]  <HMajeed>   q+ yes, I am at the airport and someone wanting to scan my QR code off the my wallet?
[2020-10-27T18:28:04.761Z]  <Jonny> q+ what was the design decision to move away from skeumorphic displays of "credentials". Many other wallets display credentials as cards, passes, etc to help bridge the conceptual gap from physical credentials to digital ones. Did you find your users preferred non-skeumorphic designs?
[2020-10-27T18:28:49.022Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T18:28:50.435Z]  <wayne> ack Jonny
[2020-10-27T18:28:56.062Z]  <wayne> ack John_Stevens
[2020-10-27T18:29:09.202Z]  <wayne> q+ Jonny Jonny has the floor (what was the design decision to move away from skeumorphic displays of "credentials". Many other wallets display credentials as cards, passes, etc to help bridge the conceptual gap from physical credentials to digital ones. Did you find your users preferred non-skeumorphic designs?).
[2020-10-27T18:29:30.405Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T18:29:32.332Z]  <wayne> ack Dave
[2020-10-27T18:29:38.132Z]  <kimhd> thanks chews, good question
[2020-10-27T18:31:00.554Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T18:31:13.336Z]  <Matthew_Basirico>  q+ are you currently pitching this to open investors?
[2020-10-27T18:31:16.561Z]  <wayne> clearing out the queue in preparation for the next round of questions for the third winner
[2020-10-27T18:31:21.926Z]  <wayne> ack chews_
[2020-10-27T18:31:23.339Z]  <wayne> ack agropper
[2020-10-27T18:31:27.526Z]  <wayne> ack HMajeed
[2020-10-27T18:31:29.755Z]  <wayne> ack wayne
[2020-10-27T18:31:36.469Z]  <wayne> ack Matthew_Basirico
[2020-10-27T18:33:56.859Z]  <heathervescent>    q?
[2020-10-27T18:36:23.582Z]  <Jonny> q+ why is registration required? Shouldn't a wallet based on DIDs not necessarily require this information? Where is it stored?
[2020-10-27T18:39:10.695Z]  <Dave>  q+ In this solution, is the onus on the user to determine what information should be presented to the verifier?
[2020-10-27T18:40:29.154Z]  <wayne> ack Jonny ack Jonny
[2020-10-27T18:40:31.314Z]  <wayne> ack Jonny
[2020-10-27T18:40:46.982Z]  <wayne> q?
[2020-10-27T18:40:48.173Z]  <wayne> ack Dave
[2020-10-27T18:41:10.392Z]  <Jonny> q+ couldn't this package constructing process be done automatically? If a wallet knows what credentials it stores and what is required by the Selective Disclosure Request, why not only surface to the user a choice of what credential to use if there are more than one credential that could be used to fulfill the request?
[2020-10-27T18:41:24.796Z]  <wayne> ack Jonny
[2020-10-27T18:42:04.242Z]  <wayne> please ask your questions! i think we have a few minutes more
[2020-10-27T18:42:24.683Z]  <wayne> thank you to folks who have asked questions already, you've contributed a lot to the discussion
[2020-10-27T18:44:33.993Z]  <Jonny> Not automating consent, but automating the construction of the package.
[2020-10-27T18:45:29.261Z]  <Nader> Will a recording of this event be made available after the fact?
[2020-10-27T18:48:06.950Z]  <tayken_>   +1 Important to elevate "the art of the possible"
[2020-10-27T18:51:59.875Z]  <Matthew_Basirico>  YES, Jerry MacGuire, just saw that movie, "Help me, help you..."
[2020-10-27T18:52:11.668Z]  <Chris_Majewski_ISED>   Will this recording be made available to the group?
[2020-10-27T18:54:17.144Z]  <chews_>    Q+ thank you to you all for your leadership.... it would be nice to see how to interfece with centralized truth systems using open apis. glad this is a w3c effort.
[2020-10-27T18:56:56.370Z]  <Nader> Q+ could we get an answer regarding whether the recording will be made available?
[2020-10-27T18:58:41.840Z]  <heathervescent>    @Nader, I have asked the panelists.
[2020-10-27T18:59:36.989Z]  <LRC>   Thanks to All
