[2023-08-22T17:30:41.418Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-08-22T17:30:41.814Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-08-22T17:31:03.136Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-08-22T17:31:03.744Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-08-22T17:32:19.538Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-08-22T17:33:21.661Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-08-22T17:33:21.662Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-08-22T17:33:41.511Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe+
[2023-08-22T17:34:02.281Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Welcome, we are common on these calls, so no need to repeat contributor agreements.
[2023-08-22T17:34:02.528Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2023-08-22T17:34:34.782Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-08-22T17:34:44.283Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This week is interop week, so we'll look at the pull requests. The only one is 580 from Chris. We talked about it last week. It might be pending close if it doesn't get updated.
[2023-08-22T17:34:59.084Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: Chris said he wasn't able to make it today.
[2023-08-22T17:35:08.732Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We did ping him on the PR last week.
[2023-08-22T17:35:40.856Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Let's close it, we can re-open it if he follows up
[2023-08-22T17:35:53.954Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/853
[2023-08-22T17:36:52.257Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russell: This is creating a new workflow for common import credentials. It is the only, Mahmoud has a blocking change request. He has not removed that change request yet. We said last time we could merge out of band.
[2023-08-22T17:37:24.507Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Looking at this now, I'm curious what business process we're trying to capture. Is it US specific?
[2023-08-22T17:37:29.915Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russell: Yes, CBP
[2023-08-22T17:38:07.930Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Purchase Order normally results in a commercial invoice and we already have an entry workflow. I wouldn't resist this, but it does raise an eye brow.
[2023-08-22T17:38:53.605Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russell: I think it's support to represent a really generic way. We're working on a demo where the credentials that will commonly be bundled are presented together.
[2023-08-22T17:39:15.434Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Adding a comment for CBP Entry workflow on the Pull Request.
[2023-08-22T17:39:35.455Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russell: So, this could be modified. Is this for the tech demo?
[2023-08-22T17:39:46.507Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/853
[2023-08-22T17:39:54.664Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We're not using it for the tech demo. We created a specific workflow for that.
[2023-08-22T17:40:14.952Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: The only action here is to ask Mahmoud to do a re-review and move onto the next item.
[2023-08-22T17:40:35.871Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-08-22T17:40:36.617Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We
[2023-08-22T17:40:47.551Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/531
[2023-08-22T17:40:48.633Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We can head back to interop and look at issues.
[2023-08-22T17:41:30.890Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: This seems related to the open PR. We should cross link and ask for comments on when he thinks we should do this.
[2023-08-22T17:41:44.657Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/530
[2023-08-22T17:42:11.940Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Why is the workflow issue on interop?
[2023-08-22T17:42:25.401Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Yes, workflows are a vocab not an interop concept.
[2023-08-22T17:42:55.258Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I'm not sure if anyone are on the open agenda call. There are a bunch of API's that are interop that we could talk about on this call.
[2023-08-22T17:43:39.765Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: Can you create an issue so we remember to bring that up?
[2023-08-22T17:43:47.620Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I'll make an issue for it.
[2023-08-22T17:44:36.088Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/528
[2023-08-22T17:45:19.171Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/529
[2023-08-22T17:45:48.013Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Do we want to have a section describing the difference with the VC-API?
[2023-08-22T17:46:31.870Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: It seems related to the comment that I made, like the CHAPI playground. As far as I can tell we've drifted so far to even suggest it's the same thing at this point.
[2023-08-22T17:46:52.297Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/503
[2023-08-22T17:47:31.251Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/504
[2023-08-22T17:47:35.735Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Let's ping Chris and move to the next one.
[2023-08-22T17:48:02.151Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: 504 has been pending close since May 30, I suggest we close.
[2023-08-22T17:48:05.894Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	+1
[2023-08-22T17:48:11.251Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/482
[2023-08-22T17:48:56.751Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This one is assigned to Mahmoud.
[2023-08-22T17:49:44.056Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: This is interop, the comment I leave on this is to wait to do this all on the v2 upgrade. There's no reason to upgrade to update to status list 2021 with v1. It's better to do it all at once to avoid two migrations.
[2023-08-22T17:49:52.942Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Should we close the tickets?
[2023-08-22T17:50:33.382Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Add a label that says, "V2 Update" so that we know what we're doing for that. The main thing is when doing the review to have the issues to consider in mind
[2023-08-22T17:50:36.876Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/506
[2023-08-22T17:51:50.854Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose-test-suite/blob/main/testcases/secured-vc-with-schema-credential/spec.yaml#L37
[2023-08-22T17:51:52.110Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: In the context of the interop stuff, one of the reasons we've been delaying on this, we wanted to let the v2 test suite get further ahead. I think this should still be assigned to me and at some point I will update it.
[2023-08-22T17:52:10.480Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c/vc-jose-cose-test-suite/blob/main/testcases/secured-vc-with-schema/spec.yaml
[2023-08-22T17:53:08.168Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: In the working group, we have some test cases that are lined up with this activity. We do use this kind of this which is a JSON schema that secures a JSON-LD example. And this should have pieces that will go along with our interop work. But I think we can do most of this work in the working group and then we copy what is relevant to us.
[2023-08-22T17:53:26.404Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/552
[2023-08-22T17:54:28.262Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I am happy to self-assign on this. And I will pick this up sometime.
[2023-08-22T17:54:31.010Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/479
[2023-08-22T17:55:11.662Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: What's actually being asked in this issue?
[2023-08-22T17:55:53.293Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is taking out proof for JWT.
[2023-08-22T17:56:20.966Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I would say add a label for "V2 Migration"
[2023-08-22T17:56:58.908Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think I noted there is a lot that needs to be cleaned up and deleted before we start V2. This might be blocking for that and something we pick up first.
[2023-08-22T17:57:19.464Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I think it's okay to add a label. Orie if you want to add that note.
[2023-08-22T17:57:28.645Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/359
[2023-08-22T17:58:07.836Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Seems like Chris has been working on this for a year now. That doesn't seem right.
[2023-08-22T17:58:40.785Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/483
[2023-08-22T18:00:02.195Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: Maybe there is more comments we can add to break this issue down so the work is more concrete.
[2023-08-22T18:00:26.019Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think it's pretty straightforward, mark this as a string and mark it as done when you think that is the case.
[2023-08-22T18:00:39.726Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/554
[2023-08-22T18:02:04.082Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think it's a pretty substantial problem that our example doesn't use traceable presentations considering the profile is built around traceable presentations.
[2023-08-22T18:02:12.146Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I'll assign myself
[2023-08-22T18:02:17.876Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/494
[2023-08-22T18:03:17.121Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Mike has a concept of workflow completion. I think it's in the wrong repo, anything with the data model should probably be in vocab.
[2023-08-22T18:03:53.104Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I think if the text regarding the weighted averages has been removed, this can be closed.
[2023-08-22T18:04:09.957Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/460
[2023-08-22T18:04:45.057Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/485
[2023-08-22T18:06:10.091Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: There is a marker for 485, this is pending for that to be closed.
[2023-08-22T18:06:28.212Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I think we addressed the problem with `replace` in the context.
[2023-08-22T18:07:04.151Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I can link the example that we have that is detached from all of this. I'll add a link to that.
[2023-08-22T18:08:14.244Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/468
[2023-08-22T18:08:17.607Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: If that's really the current context, then all we need to do is add text and we're done.
[2023-08-22T18:09:02.998Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: You can mark this for V2 because you can't host status list without hosting verifiable credentials. And I'll add a link to the VC test suite.
[2023-08-22T18:09:18.621Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/566
[2023-08-22T18:09:59.054Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russell: This and some following issues are all about updating status list.
[2023-08-22T18:10:51.235Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: For fair warning I would like to see those as test cases first. If we add them here then there's a chance they will be clobbered by the working group.
[2023-08-22T18:12:48.085Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Comment on the issue in that repo and I'll follow up on it. I want to avoid us doing stuff that will help the entire working group.
[2023-08-22T18:12:55.545Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/565
[2023-08-22T18:15:20.528Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russell: Is the upstream different from jose/cose?
[2023-08-22T18:16:01.568Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I would leave a comment on that issue. If you don't see an issue that matches it, you can create a new issue and cross link all of your existing issues and say, 'i cant make progress on these'.
[2023-08-22T18:16:09.787Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/567
[2023-08-22T18:16:41.216Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Let's assign Isaac. He know's what he wants.
[2023-08-22T18:17:04.994Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/570
[2023-08-22T18:18:09.537Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is done, we can close this ticket.
[2023-08-22T18:18:19.588Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/575
[2023-08-22T18:19:22.584Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Isn't this also being address in vc2? I think there is a lot of content-type work
[2023-08-22T18:20:12.874Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: It's debate-able what the API behavior should be. The right thing todo would be to start with normative language in the respec document. And describe MUST or MAY.
[2023-08-22T18:20:32.380Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russell: Would that be in the interop repo?
[2023-08-22T18:20:52.381Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Yes, in interop, if there isn't a section then make a general section and add the language there.
[2023-08-22T18:21:34.490Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/534
[2023-08-22T18:22:59.409Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: It's a general readability update. I think we can open a PR that adjusts the terminology. And the PR should basically say the "vocab defines terms, interop defines api"
[2023-08-22T18:23:30.248Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/533
[2023-08-22T18:24:06.197Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/532
[2023-08-22T18:24:34.481Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/496
[2023-08-22T18:25:37.844Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Mike added these sections and we added issue markers to clean it up. It sort of makes sense to have this here. I think it is in the right place.
[2023-08-22T18:26:12.770Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/542
[2023-08-22T18:27:48.020Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: This seems related to the PR that wanted to add text around scopes to some degree.
[2023-08-22T18:28:13.913Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: The document is doing too much. Is it an implementation guide, or normative requirements.
[2023-08-22T18:28:32.787Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I think it's more of the process of what we've been though. I can assign myself to delete this.
[2023-08-22T18:28:47.943Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe-
[2023-08-22T18:28:50.237Z]	<Orie>	thank you!
