Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-03-28/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-03-28/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2023-03-28

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Mar&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Paul Dietrich GS1, Sandy Aggarwal, Harrison Tang, David Chadwick, 
  Gregory Natran, Nis Jespersen , Jeff O - HumanOS, Manu Sporny, 
  David I. Lehn, Stuart Freeman, Joe Andrieu, Marty Reed, Mark 
  Haine, Will, Wendy Seltzer, Dmitri Zagidulin, Kaliya Young, 
  TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Geun-Hyung 
  Kim, Kimberly Linson, Taylor (LEF), Anil John, Phil L (P1), Greg 
  Bernstein, Jennie Meier, Nick B (Block, TBD), Lucy Yang, Erica 
  Connell, Chandi Cumaranatunge, Andres Uribe, Steve Magennis, John 
  Kuo, Mahesh Balan - pocketcred.com

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: So hello everyone and welcome to this week's that 
  we ccg meeting this week our main agenda we will have Mark and 
  David kind of present on the evidence property but before we get 
  to the main agenda we'll just do some admin stuff first.
Harrison_Tang: Quick reminder about the code of ethics and 
  professional conduct basically just make sure that we don't yell 
  at each other and be respectful to each other's perspectives and 
  opinions I think we've been doing that for as long as I remember 
  they just want to do a quick reminder of that.
Harrison_Tang:  now a quick.
Harrison_Tang: Anyone can participate these calls are all 
  successive contributions to any CG work items must be member of 
  the ccg with for IQR agreements time so make sure you have a w3c 
  account and you have any questions feel free to just reach out to 
  any of the cultures.
Harrison_Tang: Right the meetings are being recorded and there 
  will be a minutes that's automatically transcribe and set out in 
  the next few days we use GT chat to Q speakers during the call as 
  well as to take minutes so you can type in Cube plus 2i yourself 
  to the qq- to remove and Q question to see who is NICU.
<kaliya_identitywoman> I just tried coming on my phone via web 
  browser - didn't get sound that way either. So I'm on my laptop.
Harrison_Tang: All right so any introductions whirring whirring 
  introductions if you are new to the community or you have been 
  inactive are re engaging with the community police feel free to 
  unmute and introduce yourself a little bit.
Harrison_Tang: Hi Mark yes please.
Harrison_Tang: Mark thank you and thank you for taking the time 
  to join our meeting today as well.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you thank you David.
Harrison_Tang: Yeah so I think one of the goals that we set out 
  earlier this year is to have more crops Community collaborations 
  so very very happy to have Mark and also David has been active in 
  Oakland IV Foundation as well so very happy to have Mark here and 
  we'll have more meetings with open ID folks to talk about the 
  initiatives that they are working on over there as well as the 
  dif decentralized identity.
Harrison_Tang:  all right any other.
Harrison_Tang: I was worried introduction.
Harrison_Tang: Okay what about announcements and reminders.
<dmitri_zagidulin> yeyyyyyy!
Manu Sporny:  Yeah just an update from ITF 116 which is happening 
  this week we presented some of the work that this group has been 
  working on for a couple of years specifically the multi formats 
  work including multi base in multi hash we presented this at a 
  group called dispatch and dispatch is job is to find a home for 
  work that people.
Manu Sporny:   Bring to the eye.
Manu Sporny:  F there were 150 to 160 people in attendance 136 on 
  the chat possibly you know 30 to 50 people in the room so really 
  well attended as most dispatch meetings it was the first meeting 
  of the week so lots of people there so the good good news is that 
  the.
Manu Sporny:   The dispatch.
<manu_sporny> Dispatch outcome for Multiformats: 
  https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/dispatch/418F3PuRj0JZHkIpBDDk3033QcY/
Manu Sporny:  Including the area directors have decided that the 
  work is useful and it should be done at ITF they have given us 
  two choices so let me let me get a here's the dispatch outcome 
  for multi floor mats each outcome for multi formats so there's a 
  they basically said gave us two options.
Manu Sporny:   One of the.
Manu Sporny:  Is a straight too many working group thing so 
  that's we were not expecting that we were we were suggesting that 
  maybe some area directors could sponsor the work and we could 
  make progress there the area directors are very busy in the 
  number of the area director said that ITF should get in the 
  practice of doing a fast turnaround working groups and so one of 
  the options put forward was a mini working group the other option 
  is a straight.
Manu Sporny:   Ooh I see track which basically says if we're not 
  looking for.
Manu Sporny:  Is then go ahead you know we'd be just documenting 
  what already exists since the work already has like 17 
  implementations and has been out in the market and is deployed in 
  production systems and all that kind of stuff they said the icy 
  track is a valid one as well so feel free to follow along in the 
  in the email thread I just linked to there.
Manu Sporny:   If you want to see the slide deck.
Manu Sporny:  That was presented.
<manu_sporny> IETF 116: DISPATCH Multiformats 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WjKoxB-fxkPpaXB4kUu8IsTwQ4qXFmka1ocwEVEeBpk/edit#
Manu Sporny:  Ted I'll put that in the chat channel here there's 
  the the slide back that was presented the stuff this community is 
  going to have to get its head around is whether or not we want to 
  working group at ITF or if we want to go the IC route I'm 
  slightly leaning towards a little mini working group because it 
  would be good to get.
<greg_bernstein> IANA?
Manu Sporny:  Um on this work that always comes with risks like 
  the people that joined the working group might decide that they 
  really do not like the work in want to change it drastically that 
  doesn't that happen sometimes and so we just have to go in with 
  that understanding the problem of course being that they're 
  already 17 implementers and people have already implemented this 
  thing so we would have to convince many of those implementers to 
  change their implementations if we saw a big.
Manu Sporny:   A big changes happen there but.
Manu Sporny:  Say this is great news in we can look forward to 
  you know two of these things progressing through the ITF process 
  over the next couple of months to year that's it.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you Manya Korea.
<mark_haine> I bought my ticket to IIW
Kaliya Young:  Hi folks so the internet identity Workshop is 
  coming up in April the 18th to the 20th of the are likely to sell 
  out again so if you are planning on being there please they are 
  tickets as soon as possible I'll also share we're really 
  committed accessibility so if you want to be there and can't 
  afford ticket prices please reach out I'll put my email in.
Kaliya Young:   The chat.
Kaliya Young:  And then more importantly if you are in Europe and 
  are are interested in participating in community processes like 
  IW good news is we're bringing with local Partners in Switzerland 
  the digital identity unconference Europe to Zurich June 7th and 
  9th with the 8th and 9th being open.
Kaliya Young:   Space Technology Days the format we use.
Kaliya Young:  But you the first day half day will have one too 
  many talks that are sort of introductory and supporting people 
  getting up to speed so I will also put the link for that and chat 
  and if you are in Europe or work with people in Europe if you 
  could please let them know about it and encourage them to 
  consider participating that would be really great thank you.
Kaliya Young: http://diceurope.org
Kaliya Young: http://www.internetidentityworkshop.com
<kaliya_identitywoman> kaliya@identitywoman.net
Harrison_Tang: Yeah so we won't have the meeting on the April 
  18th on the weekend by W so here you have it available just join 
  the iaw at that mountain view all right a quick overview of 
  what's coming so next week we will actually we invited Dan 
  Yamamoto Causeway to talk about that linked database verifiable 
  credentials with selected disclosures on link ability and.
Harrison_Tang:  and predicate proofs and the week after.
https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/credentials/calendar
Harrison_Tang: Called 11th will have holder bindings we cancel 
  the April 18th meeting due to IW and then after that we'll have 
  gelfand open ID Foundation to talk about what they're working on 
  so I'll paste the link to the agenda in the chat.
Harrison_Tang: Any other announcements were reminders.
Harrison_Tang: Right next what about any comments or updates on 
  the work items.
Manu Sporny:  I'm just saying this because the work item leaders 
  aren't here so BBS was just adopted from this group into the 
  verifiable credentials working group so the selective disclosure 
  and linkable signatures stuff so we're going to have to make sure 
  that we wrap that work up here and then transfer it over to that 
  group the other thing that was accepted is the.
<greg_bernstein> ECDSA?
Manu Sporny:  20:22 Work that Gabe just started in this group 
  like two months ago three months ago or whatever but that's been 
  accepted by the verifiable credential working group and so we 
  need to wrap that up in transferred over so just a heads up to 
  the chairs and the community to look for you know those things 
  migrating to verify credential working group in the next week or 
  so ecdsa was already moved over Greg so that that happened two 
  weeks ago.
Manu Sporny:   Ago or one week ago or something like that so two 
  more things.
Manu Sporny:  And things moving to ietf by think the community 
  should be super happy that you know our stuff is absolutely being 
  picked up by multiple different standard-setting organizations at 
  an increasing Pace that's it.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you mommy you.
Harrison_Tang: Thanks everyone for the good work.
Harrison_Tang: Try any other updates on the work item.
<kaliya_identitywoman> Also I forgot to share i"m working with 
  Johannes on the FediForum starting tomorrow 
  https://fediforum.org/
Harrison_Tang: Okay so I think that's get to the manage Enda so 
  this week again we are very honored to actually have Mark and 
  David to present them lead the discussion on evidence property so 
  Mark is the culture of open ID foundations he K YC e know your.
Harrison_Tang: And very active contributor to both w3c ccg as 
  well as the open ID foundation so we recently have some Lively 
  discussions on the topic recently so I think would be great yeah 
  Mark and David to kind of provide a little background on it as 
  well as to be that discussion on this topic so without further 
  Ado Mark and David please take it away thanks.
<sandy_aggarwal> I can barely hear Mark. Not sure if it's just 
  me. Thanks
<nick_b_(block,_tbd)> I can hear you well Mark
<david_chadwick> Note. This does not appear to be minuted
<manu_sporny> yes, transcriber isn't picking up audio from Mark 
  or David -- we'll need someone to step in and scribe.
<manu_sporny> (also, everything is recorded, audio and video, so 
  can listen to that instead)
<kaliya_identitywoman> OASIS is also proposing something similar 
  re:eKYC - 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rwArKAeQJB0CJ0uSN3ZGU1iuQ0YBJy7IjIfQhAFIAws/edit
<kim_duffy> interesting, autoscribe not picking up David either, 
  who I can hear clearly
<manu_sporny> The directory that DavidC is talking about: 
  https://w3c.github.io/vc-specs-dir/#evidence
Geun-Hyung Kim: +1
<manu_sporny> @Kim -- autoscribe isn't picking up the WebRTC 
  streams from DavidC (typically because Safari is being used).
<manu_sporny> (same for Mark, unfortunately)
<kim_duffy> I would q myself but I'm not voice-connected yet. 
  Will try to do before end of the call
<nick_b_(block,_tbd)> The OASIS work is awesome, but slightly 
  different in that it does not intend to include PII claims that 
  need to be evidenced. However from talking with Kim they do 
  intend to leverage this work as well, to evidence identity 
  proofing processes used
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I guess the general question I have for so one 
  it's great that both of you are working on an Evidence property 
  it's a demonstration that this extension point in the verifiable 
  credential data model is useful so thank you to both of you for 
  you know pushing that work forward it's also good that we can 
  demonstrate that you know work and happen in other areas as 
  extensions to the verifiable credential data model it doesn't.
Manu Sporny:   Y'all need to go through w3c it doesn't all need 
  to.
<kim_duffy> @Nick, exactly, and we intend to work closely with 
  this
Manu Sporny:  In the working group so that this is another good 
  kind of demonstration that we might have built something that you 
  know can be extended in a decentralized way I guess the 
  understanding kind of the core use case that you're going after 
  in who you believe the first set of kind of deployers for this 
  technology are going to be would be helpful to kind of ground the 
  discussion in.
Manu Sporny:   Like you know who.
Manu Sporny:  Who are the first set of customers for this 
  extension point and what problems do you feel it's going to 
  address in the in the market would certainly help me understand 
  where this fits in the the larger ecosystem.
Manu Sporny:  Partially the the part that I think you might not 
  have been here for is the is the deployment story so we're who's 
  going to deploy this first and in what's the driving use case for 
  that like specifically you know I think you mentioned like 
  yes.com who deals with you know Banking and Financial you know 
  industry things who do we know who the initial set of 
  implementers and employers are for this.
Harrison_Tang: Any other questions or comments money does that 
  address your question.
<nick_b_(block,_tbd)> Manu, I'll add that we're interested in 
  leveraging the VC version of this to unlock regulatory compliant 
  financial transactions at Block
Harrison_Tang: So for for some of us were not familiar with the 
  evidence property of are the some of the examples of the evidence 
  properties and data fields.
Harrison_Tang: Got it thank you.
Harrison_Tang:  now I have a follow-up question no there's 
  different form.
Harrison_Tang: Got it so essentially like the u.s. driver license 
  will have its own profile and its own schema and then the UK 
  while we'll have another one so it doesn't try to standardize the 
  two different schemas into one it would just basically provides 
  the extension that allows the issuer's to kind of provide more 
  evidences for identity Assurance purposes basically that is that 
  correct.
Harrison_Tang: Got it thank you.
Harrison_Tang: Any other questions.
Harrison_Tang: Oh no I was just asking about the standardization 
  across different formats but I think you kind of answered thank 
  you.
Harrison_Tang: Any other questions from the community.
<smagennis> ?+
Harrison_Tang: All right so Mark and David do you guys have any 
  closing comments on this topic.
<kim_duffy> Is smagennis trying to q+?
Harrison_Tang: So if people have any feedbacks or comments like 
  how do how do they reach you.
<smagennis> y
<david_chadwick> d.w.chadwick@truetrust.co.uk
Harrison_Tang: Got it thank you.
Harrison_Tang: And I see us Martinez you have a question.
<mark_haine> mark@considrd.consulting
Steve Magennis:  Yes Steve I'm sorry I may have missed this but 
  maybe primary questions you know we providing this evidence is 
  this something that is attested to by the issuer's at the general 
  concept Itself attested by the issue.
Steve Magennis:  Well yeah that's where my question right so the 
  one issue is if if I'm an issuer and I'm making some sort of 
  authoritative statement and then I have to provide additional 
  information about why that authoritative statements authoritative 
  I'm not seeing where there's added value to that other than if 
  you're more interested in what the process is that eyes an issue 
  we took to get there right so it's different from whether or not 
  I should trust it is more you know kind of a process that you go 
  through to get it.
Steve Magennis:  Yes I get the notion that it's evidence which is 
  good can be used for decision-making but I don't see it as adding 
  additional trust so I'm kind of losing that aspect of it.
Steve Magennis:  But again all self attested by the issuer.
Steve Magennis:  Okay thank you.
Harrison_Tang: Any other questions or comments.
Harrison_Tang: Right David any closing thoughts to bring us home.
Harrison_Tang: Cool I'm sorry I have a follow-up comment I have 
  you guys looking to I see schema.org because I see a lot of 
  potential overlap between these two initiatives yeah.
Harrison_Tang: The reason I bring it up because a lot of a lot of 
  people implements you got that were simply because it's I think 
  it's the the go to stand there for Google SEO so everyone who 
  does SEO have to call schema.org so if we could kind of 
  collaborate together and maybe even piggyback on top of scheme I 
  thought work that will instantly give you a lot of traction 
  because old all like oh websites who does SEO will basically have 
  to adopt it.
<mark_haine> Gt
Harrison_Tang: All right I think this concludes today's meeting 
  so any other comments or things that people aren't bring up or 
  maybe there's an introduction for reintroductions that we missed 
  earlier.
Harrison_Tang: Okay cool so I just wanted to thank you Mark and 
  thank you David for jumping on and actually lead this discussion 
  and answering questions but will end a little bit early today and 
  you know have have a good one everyone thank you.
