[2021-08-30T14:59:08.333Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0380.html
[2021-08-30T14:59:08.341Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-08-30T14:59:08.487Z]	<Anthony>	present+
[2021-08-30T14:59:08.488Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic:  Agenda Review
[2021-08-30T14:59:10.150Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-08-30T14:59:19.521Z]	<Steve_Traugott>	present+
[2021-08-30T14:59:41.330Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:00:09.688Z]	<Wes_Teter>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:00:21.330Z]	<Steve_Gance>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:00:34.675Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	chair: Kerri_Lemoie, Camilleri
[2021-08-30T15:00:58.780Z]	<Thierry_Thevenet>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:01:07.879Z]	<Andy_Miller>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:02:01.659Z]	<Tzviya_Siegman>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:02:23.176Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:02:25.452Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:02:38.981Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	jtKrs8BQAfWbXE4H*SNL
[2021-08-30T15:02:40.604Z]	<Sheryl>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:02:45.255Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:02:46.255Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic:  IP Note
[2021-08-30T15:02:47.454Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2021-08-30T15:02:59.055Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2021-08-30T15:03:11.091Z]	<Juan_caballero>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:03:11.191Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic:  Call Notes
[2021-08-30T15:03:11.361Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-08-30T15:03:20.136Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	http://irc.w3.org/?channels=ccg
[2021-08-30T15:03:32.734Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-08-30T15:03:35.869Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-08-30T15:04:03.730Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:04:05.730Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic:  Scribe Selection
[2021-08-30T15:04:21.129Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	I'll scribe
[2021-08-30T15:04:36.037Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Ok - thanks Marty!
[2021-08-30T15:04:39.366Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	scribe: Marty_Reed
[2021-08-30T15:04:42.245Z]	<Juan_caballero>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:04:49.184Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:05:00.668Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: introductions reintroductions
[2021-08-30T14:59:08.734Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic:  Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-08-30T15:05:01.992Z]	<Juan_caballero>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:05:05.675Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:05:06.005Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:05:11.043Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:05:25.246Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DE: intro of Credential Engine
[2021-08-30T15:05:31.482Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:05:55.433Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:06:16.967Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: Anthony is going to be introducing EuroPass
[2021-08-30T15:06:17.967Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic:  Announcements & Reminders
[2021-08-30T15:06:39.425Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: Every Tuesday weekly CCG meeting
[2021-08-30T15:06:46.223Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Work item to write a VC Guide for Developers: 
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/206
[2021-08-30T15:07:08.664Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:07:12.812Z]	<Adam_Lemmon_(C.T)>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:07:14.270Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: October IIW 12th-14th
[2021-08-30T15:07:20.652Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxxiii-33-2021b-tickets-160257990965
[2021-08-30T15:07:22.652Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic:  Anthony Camilleri - Europass as VCs
[2021-08-30T15:07:46.653Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: intro Anthony
[2021-08-30T15:08:31.474Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: introducing digital credentials part of EuroPasss
[2021-08-30T15:09:02.808Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: major policy project of the commission, approximately 2MM accounts and 10k new per day
[2021-08-30T15:09:16.067Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:09:49.387Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: european standard comes out of leg. 2018 mandating a Euro system for digitally signed qualifications
[2021-08-30T15:10:06.486Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:10:43.944Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: starting with design prinicipals and standards to address all levels of education Prek-University
[2021-08-30T15:11:20.628Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: align with Euro Recognition Instruments, harmonizing education systems in Europe
[2021-08-30T15:11:46.321Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: Capture Formal and Informal, learning is learning
[2021-08-30T15:12:01.012Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: applicable to the whole course lifecycle
[2021-08-30T15:12:22.388Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: interoperable, free, and open source
[2021-08-30T15:12:38.229Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: legal value across the EU
[2021-08-30T15:13:07.166Z]	<Simone>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:13:23.218Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: no standard fully reflected lifelong learning, therefore develop meta-model ELDM
[2021-08-30T15:13:32.150Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:13:52.539Z]	<Marty_Reed>	VC model was a good foundation to start with
[2021-08-30T15:14:14.602Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: something you have gained related to learning activitives
[2021-08-30T15:14:47.105Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: achievement is something you've earned, learning outcomes, knowledge, autonomy and responsibility
[2021-08-30T15:15:06.765Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: including entitlements
[2021-08-30T15:16:11.044Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: Lifecycle Concepts: specifications, learning opportunities, credentials describing a claim
[2021-08-30T15:17:02.824Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: specifications are interrelated, building on one another, occupation, course, lesson plan
[2021-08-30T15:17:40.035Z]	<Taylor_(LEF)>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:17:57.365Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: Learning opportunity specification, add individual information to create a credential
[2021-08-30T15:19:50.470Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: Credential metadata- Issuer data and credential type, Claim - Person ID (10-15 different identifiers) set of legal identifiers defined by EU for signature, and action
[2021-08-30T15:20:13.634Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:20:47.829Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: VC XML currently moving toward an RDF/JSONLD model
[2021-08-30T15:21:16.866Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q+
[2021-08-30T15:21:19.112Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:21:34.006Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:21:43.399Z]	<Marty_Reed>	P1: question on entitlement
[2021-08-30T15:22:03.960Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: entitlement = right to study, membership of an org as an example
[2021-08-30T15:22:07.337Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:22:52.250Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-08-30T15:22:52.440Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:22:56.040Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: start from Open Badges V3 spec
[2021-08-30T15:23:08.967Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	(sorry i was confused, was switching devices :D )
[2021-08-30T15:23:18.924Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	All good @Juan :)
[2021-08-30T15:23:27.169Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: the majority of our credentials are highly complex 60-70 claims per credential
[2021-08-30T15:24:05.965Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC:things we can use - type, achievementType
[2021-08-30T15:24:27.197Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: TWCU - badgeclass and resultsDescription
[2021-08-30T15:24:33.667Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:24:51.748Z]	<Nate_Otto>	When you say a credential has 60 claims in it, area these 60 described achievements, each of which might have entitlements etc? Packaged together like a transcript? (For next pause)
[2021-08-30T15:25:04.134Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: TWCU - no nesting relationship between badgeclass and resultdescription
[2021-08-30T15:25:17.883Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: TWCU - everything has a URI
[2021-08-30T15:25:58.285Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: the idea of creator inside credential subject is useful to reference entities outside the credential
[2021-08-30T15:26:06.690Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:26:38.050Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: Issues to Resolve - cannot support multiple claims
[2021-08-30T15:27:18.510Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: proposal to solve - keep structure and create an array of claims
[2021-08-30T15:27:44.798Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: includes multiple types of claims within the array
[2021-08-30T15:28:00.584Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:28:09.642Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: ITR - credential has a type at the top level
[2021-08-30T15:28:45.803Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: Proposal - ass a credential type as a property
[2021-08-30T15:28:57.971Z]	<Marty_Reed>	add not ass
[2021-08-30T15:29:20.240Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	credential title as arbitrary string/local alias or specified?
[2021-08-30T15:30:04.621Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: within VC there are no properties to describe the credential as a whole
[2021-08-30T15:30:32.908Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: intrinsic part has to be the visual representation
[2021-08-30T15:30:49.108Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: proposal - add displayproperties tag
[2021-08-30T15:31:17.673Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	i'm assuming that `"id":"https://website-that-displays-credential.example.com"` really means `"id":"https://website-that-displays-credential.example.com/credential/{UUID}"`, right?
[2021-08-30T15:31:30.652Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: put the HTML directly in line within the credential
[2021-08-30T15:31:45.489Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q+
[2021-08-30T15:32:03.427Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:32:21.711Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JC: question around credential title
[2021-08-30T15:32:28.310Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:32:53.930Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: the credentialtitle is a simple text string
[2021-08-30T15:33:10.015Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JC: like an alias string
[2021-08-30T15:33:56.091Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JC: UUID in URL?
[2021-08-30T15:34:14.915Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:34:39.421Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: ID of the credential is a UUID, link to a visual representation can be a URL in the description
[2021-08-30T15:34:50.861Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-08-30T15:35:24.299Z]	<Marty_Reed>	P1: link pointing to an IPFS location or the like?
[2021-08-30T15:35:29.648Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:35:29.652Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	CIDs not UUIDs :D
[2021-08-30T15:35:52.686Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: in our implementation the entire HTML will be in the credential
[2021-08-30T15:36:02.932Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	(one could also use hashlinks, to that HTML)
[2021-08-30T15:36:08.424Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	^
[2021-08-30T15:36:09.018Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:36:12.036Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:36:16.397Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: adding the ability to add an outside reference link
[2021-08-30T15:36:32.416Z]	<Marty_Reed>	P1: alternative hashed link?
[2021-08-30T15:36:46.529Z]	<Anthony>	(this one I'm taking back with me :-))
[2021-08-30T15:37:32.828Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: your example shows a claim with an array of claims, how do you handle the multiple achievements in the claim?
[2021-08-30T15:37:37.275Z]	<Nate_Otto>	Q+ to ask about use cases for separability of individual claims
[2021-08-30T15:37:52.378Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:37:53.165Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: description of diploma supplement
[2021-08-30T15:38:18.690Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Anthony's example: https://hackmd.io/D2b4lJTXTgOG1ss4B3payA
[2021-08-30T15:38:51.252Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q+
[2021-08-30T15:39:01.070Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	q+
[2021-08-30T15:39:10.718Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: want to be able to represent single expresssions as well in the same model
[2021-08-30T15:39:13.996Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Nate_Otto
[2021-08-30T15:39:31.021Z]	<Marty_Reed>	NO: separability of claims?
[2021-08-30T15:39:54.056Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	Nate asked my question
[2021-08-30T15:39:56.757Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	q-
[2021-08-30T15:40:19.562Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Might the signature method be able to 'separate out a credential?
[2021-08-30T15:41:11.393Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: massively complex question, technically separating is on the roadmap, other part is to have individual claims and stackability of those claims
[2021-08-30T15:41:45.166Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:41:55.885Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-08-30T15:42:06.366Z]	<Marty_Reed>	P1: self-assertion of a credential?
[2021-08-30T15:42:18.445Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: self-assertion is not within the model
[2021-08-30T15:42:21.580Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2021-08-30T15:42:27.929Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	"issuer": "did:example:some_random_guy"
[2021-08-30T15:42:44.248Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:43:13.905Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: use HROpen as a self-assertion model
[2021-08-30T15:43:15.842Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:43:34.191Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	is that the resume portion of HR Open?
[2021-08-30T15:43:40.612Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: how will evidence be used?
[2021-08-30T15:43:58.065Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: evidence is quite controversial
[2021-08-30T15:44:15.653Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: current plan is for evidence to follow OpenBadges
[2021-08-30T15:44:21.000Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	q+
[2021-08-30T15:44:32.599Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:44:43.176Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/#example-23-usage-of-the-evidence-property
^ evidence outside the credSubj or inside?
[2021-08-30T15:45:07.874Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: actively talking about semi-universal wallet
[2021-08-30T15:45:16.356Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	universal-ish
[2021-08-30T15:45:29.117Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:45:29.524Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: OpenBadges and EuroPass creds in the same wallet
[2021-08-30T15:45:39.765Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	@Juan: +1 to 'universal-ish', great technical term!
[2021-08-30T15:45:40.974Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)
[2021-08-30T15:45:53.682Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Does that mean that there is in the current Europass wallet the only type of credential that can be held?
[2021-08-30T15:46:01.221Z]	<Marty_Reed>	JC: evidence is inside the credentialsubject?
[2021-08-30T15:46:20.196Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: evidence in an OB is different than VC
[2021-08-30T15:46:24.605Z]	<Nate_Otto>	OB did intentionally model evidence as a claim about the recipient in our v3 proposal.
[2021-08-30T15:46:42.080Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	a video file
[2021-08-30T15:46:43.127Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: can be part of the achievement
[2021-08-30T15:46:47.612Z]	<Simone>	"Uni(contro)versial Wallet" ? (apologies, just trying to match Juan's sharp commentary ;-)
[2021-08-30T15:46:57.593Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:47:30.179Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:47:32.002Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: surprised no one has questions about multiple claims?
[2021-08-30T15:47:35.990Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2021-08-30T15:47:42.741Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: is this a valid way forward?
[2021-08-30T15:48:05.250Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Dmitri_Zagidulin
[2021-08-30T15:48:42.005Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: recommend VCs should be short, but realizing there are legislative requrements
[2021-08-30T15:48:46.441Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	q+
[2021-08-30T15:48:46.660Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	or resignation
[2021-08-30T15:48:47.211Z]	<Taylor_(LEF)>	@JC, Kerri is the antidote to willful OB ignorance. I'm guilty as well :)
[2021-08-30T15:48:49.554Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DZ: you're hearing acceptance
[2021-08-30T15:49:11.538Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: we're seeing alignment between OB and CLR
[2021-08-30T15:49:31.639Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:49:32.845Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2021-08-30T15:49:37.271Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	I think everyone is hoping that the two approaches will be interchangeable
[2021-08-30T15:49:39.448Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: many cases the credential should be simple, but many that require more complexity
[2021-08-30T15:49:46.848Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Deb_Everhart
[2021-08-30T15:49:50.996Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:49:52.131Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DE: is it as simple as a both/and?
[2021-08-30T15:50:04.808Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	meaning, if you have a bunch of short credentials, that you can bind them into a single larger one. Or, if you have a large multi-claim credential, you can split out claims (using BBS+ etc)
[2021-08-30T15:50:24.024Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DE: can it be simple and then referenced from the more complex?
[2021-08-30T15:51:02.924Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	(or, if not able to use BBS+ or similar tech, it could be as simple as - ask your issuer for BOTH a large "transcript", and a specific skill credential.
[2021-08-30T15:51:06.612Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DE: OBv3 and CLR will both support multiple claims?
[2021-08-30T15:51:23.073Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	+1 Dimitri
[2021-08-30T15:51:23.387Z]	<Anthony>	@dmitri that last one is what happens in pratice in many institutions
[2021-08-30T15:51:26.124Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: OBv3 is still a single achievement
[2021-08-30T15:51:28.666Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:51:34.432Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	@Anthony - makes sense!
[2021-08-30T15:51:49.427Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:52:06.462Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: issue multiple small credentials and then combining them?
[2021-08-30T15:52:18.588Z]	<Marty_Reed>	DE: yes oversimplified
[2021-08-30T15:53:04.595Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	one important value of that approach is to give people their achievements sooner, along the way to the larger credential
[2021-08-30T15:53:08.911Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: in the transcript you could do a number of small credentials, but there are many use cases that still require multiple claims in a single credential
[2021-08-30T15:53:37.478Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-08-30T15:53:49.111Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	+1 Deb
[2021-08-30T15:53:57.343Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:54:04.714Z]	<Marty_Reed>	P1: OBv3 as a building block is a great value, complex credentials have a layering with relationships between those claims and sequence of those claims matter
[2021-08-30T15:54:30.116Z]	<Marty_Reed>	P1: metadata of the relationships is required in the more complex credentials
[2021-08-30T15:55:01.836Z]	<Marty_Reed>	P1: complex credentials work ahead is the metadata patterning
[2021-08-30T15:55:11.801Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: agreed
[2021-08-30T15:55:18.755Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	:)
[2021-08-30T15:55:41.889Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: relationships between claims is a key issue, we must describe both approaches
[2021-08-30T15:56:13.768Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: issuer issuing a credential with other relationships and how do you do that?
[2021-08-30T15:57:04.587Z]	<Marty_Reed>	P1: some organizations wish to have a set of claims as a single package and allow those claims to be expressed as a new set of credentials
[2021-08-30T15:57:09.209Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-30T15:58:37.379Z]	<Marty_Reed>	AC: topics for next week, multiple languages, guidance on DIDs vs PII, Labeling Skills/learning Outcomes, Micro-credentials and stackability in a VC
[2021-08-30T15:59:17.510Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	thanks anthony and marty!
[2021-08-30T15:59:18.704Z]	<Marty_Reed>	kL: close
