[2020-09-22T15:58:45.846Z]	<Phil-T3>	Is Jitsi being used for this meeting as well?
[2020-09-22T15:59:07.704Z]	<heathervescent>	Yes, we are at: https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/weekly
[2020-09-22T15:59:11.445Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-09-22T15:59:15.325Z]	<Phil-T3>	Thanks Manu
[2020-09-22T15:59:25.722Z]	<manu>	present+
[2020-09-22T15:59:44.846Z]	<Mike_Prorock_-_mesur.io>	present+
[2020-09-22T15:59:51.116Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:00:43.001Z]	<Phil>	Uh oh. Anil has joined the meeting ;-)
[2020-09-22T16:01:06.149Z]	<voip-ccg>	Conference started.
[2020-09-22T16:01:06.150Z]	<voip-ccg>	ROBBIE JONES [SIP/pstn-0-000013f0] is in the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:01:06.479Z]	<voip-ccg>	ROBBIE JONES [SIP/pstn-0-000013f0] has joined the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:01:17.975Z]	<voip-ccg>	ROBBIE JONES [SIP/pstn-0-000013f0] has left the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:01:18.024Z]	<voip-ccg>	No one is in the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:01:18.025Z]	<voip-ccg>	Performing administrative duties before leaving channel...
[2020-09-22T16:01:20.717Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:01:21.999Z]	<voip-ccg>	Published raw IRC log to https://w3c-ccg.s3.digitalbazaar.com/minutes/2020-09-22-irc.log
[2020-09-22T16:01:42.084Z]	<voip-ccg>	Published raw audio to https://w3c-ccg.s3.digitalbazaar.com/minutes/2020-09-22-audio.wav ...
[2020-09-22T16:01:45.092Z]	<voip-ccg>	Conference started.
[2020-09-22T16:01:45.093Z]	<voip-ccg>	THOMAS SCHWARZ [SIP/pstn-3-000013f1] is in the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:01:45.722Z]	<voip-ccg>	THOMAS SCHWARZ [SIP/pstn-3-000013f1] has joined the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:01:56.425Z]	<Anil_John>	LOL
[2020-09-22T16:02:06.050Z]	<jonathan_holt>	present+ jonathan_holt
[2020-09-22T16:02:25.116Z]	<brent>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:02:48.548Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:02:54.305Z]	<cel>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:03:07.498Z]	<robbie.jones@forgerock.com>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:03:12.350Z]	<AH>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:03:52.389Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:03:58.048Z]	<manu>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:04:13.860Z]	<Kim>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-09-22T16:04:23.811Z]	<Kim>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-09-22T16:04:36.121Z]	<Kim>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-09-22T16:04:48.935Z]	<Kim>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-09-22T16:05:35.578Z]	<robbie.jones@forgerock.com>	I heard 'recording is on' but that is all... is there another setting I have to enable to get audio?
[2020-09-22T16:05:58.196Z]	<Phil>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:06:02.329Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:06:04.731Z]	<Catherine>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:06:12.393Z]	<rocco>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:06:24.585Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	robbie: we can hear audio -- if you can't hear audio, you might try joining via a different browser (or check your audio settings)
[2020-09-22T16:06:27.463Z]	<Martin>	Present+
[2020-09-22T16:06:33.684Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:06:59.651Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:08:06.044Z]	<voip-ccg>	THOMAS SCHWARZ [SIP/pstn-3-000013f1] has left the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:08:06.074Z]	<voip-ccg>	No one is in the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:08:06.075Z]	<voip-ccg>	Performing administrative duties before leaving channel...
[2020-09-22T16:08:09.838Z]	<voip-ccg>	Published raw IRC log to https://w3c-ccg.s3.digitalbazaar.com/minutes/2020-09-22-irc.log
[2020-09-22T16:08:20.413Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Christopher is in IRC
[2020-09-22T16:08:26.250Z]	<voip-ccg>	Published raw audio to https://w3c-ccg.s3.digitalbazaar.com/minutes/2020-09-22-audio.wav ...
[2020-09-22T16:09:53.271Z]	<jonathan_holt>	reqrets
[2020-09-22T16:11:05.265Z]	<Kim>	Scribe: Kaliya
[2020-09-22T16:11:15.290Z]	<manu>	scribe: identitywoman
[2020-09-22T16:11:22.639Z]	<identitywoman>	Kim: Introduction and re-introductions
[2020-09-22T16:11:31.419Z]	<Kim>	Topic: Introduction & Re-introductions
[2020-09-22T16:12:12.873Z]	<wayne>	q+ reintroduction
[2020-09-22T16:12:28.029Z]	<Kim>	econnell
[2020-09-22T16:12:38.223Z]	<identitywoman>	Kim: Eric Connell
[2020-09-22T16:12:52.150Z]	<Kim>	Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2020-09-22T16:12:55.362Z]	<identitywoman>	@econnell Works with Rebooting web of trust on virtualizing it.
[2020-09-22T16:12:57.037Z]	<Kim>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-09-22T16:13:20.510Z]	<heathervescent>	q?
[2020-09-22T16:13:24.735Z]	<Kim>	https://internetidentityworkshop.com/
[2020-09-22T16:13:27.590Z]	<Moses>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:13:29.484Z]	<identitywoman>	Kim: Annoucements IIW is coming up October 20-22
[2020-09-22T16:13:31.572Z]	<Jacob>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:14:08.476Z]	<identitywoman>	Kim: several ongoing side meetings.
[2020-09-22T16:14:25.031Z]	<Kim>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/
[2020-09-22T16:14:30.102Z]	<identitywoman>	Kim: Verifiable Credentials for education 8am pacific.
[2020-09-22T16:14:39.319Z]	<voip-ccg>	Conference started.
[2020-09-22T16:14:39.320Z]	<voip-ccg>	ORGEL, JEFF [SIP/pstn-3-000013f3] is in the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:14:40.352Z]	<voip-ccg>	ORGEL, JEFF [SIP/pstn-3-000013f3] has joined the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:14:40.785Z]	<voip-ccg>	ORGEL, JEFF [SIP/pstn-3-000013f3] has left the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:14:40.816Z]	<voip-ccg>	No one is in the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:14:40.816Z]	<voip-ccg>	Performing administrative duties before leaving channel...
[2020-09-22T16:14:43.770Z]	<identitywoman>	Kim: Every Monday there is a DID resolution calls 1pm pacific
[2020-09-22T16:14:44.510Z]	<voip-ccg>	Published raw IRC log to https://w3c-ccg.s3.digitalbazaar.com/minutes/2020-09-22-irc.log
[2020-09-22T16:14:51.759Z]	<Kim>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qYBaXQMUoB86Alquu7WBtWOxsS8SMhp1fioYKEGCabE/
[2020-09-22T16:15:00.775Z]	<voip-ccg>	Published raw audio to https://w3c-ccg.s3.digitalbazaar.com/minutes/2020-09-22-audio.wav ...
[2020-09-22T16:15:08.535Z]	<identitywoman>	((someone is breathing...can you mute))
[2020-09-22T16:15:30.538Z]	<Kim>	https://forms.gle/HGGiFtgASUqWRqTLA
[2020-09-22T16:15:35.704Z]	<identitywoman>	Kim: Secure Data Store working group 1pm Pacific Thursday
[2020-09-22T16:15:41.729Z]	<Kim>	q?
[2020-09-22T16:15:45.943Z]	<cel>	DID resolution spec meeting is bi-weekly; was yesterday
[2020-09-22T16:15:52.088Z]	<Kim>	ack reintroduction
[2020-09-22T16:16:32.908Z]	<Kim>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-09-22T16:16:53.580Z]	<Kim>	Topic: Progress on Action Items
[2020-09-22T16:17:40.944Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:18:16.316Z]	<identitywoman>	Kim: issue - synthesize what is in a wallet into a report.  can we close? Heather pulled together a lot of material. If it is going to move forward it needs owners for it.
[2020-09-22T16:18:52.291Z]	<Anil_John>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:19:16.644Z]	<identitywoman>	Heather: we had a positive response to what is a wallet and we wanted to capture the information beyond the wallet.
[2020-09-22T16:19:36.413Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:19:47.614Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-09-22T16:20:14.046Z]	<identitywoman>	Heather: It was suggested that a more detailed overviewed or recap could be made.  There were some people who thought that was a good idea. We have satisfied the initial issue.
[2020-09-22T16:20:17.382Z]	<manu>	+1 to avoid scope creep.
[2020-09-22T16:20:23.590Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-09-22T16:20:24.070Z]	<Anil_John>	Speaking of Digital Wallets, the UI/UX Competition being sponsored by DHS/SVIP is now open -- Details at https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/prize-competitions
[2020-09-22T16:20:27.058Z]	<manu>	and have focused issues that have resolutions.
[2020-09-22T16:20:46.797Z]	<Anil_John>	We will be sure to point the applicants to the CCG Digital Wallet resources and report.
[2020-09-22T16:21:15.468Z]	<identitywoman>	Heather: if there is someone who wants to take ownership and write a report that could work.
[2020-09-22T16:21:46.744Z]	<wayne>	q+
[2020-09-22T16:21:49.647Z]	<Anil_John>	We will announce the 3 Stage 1 winners at a community engagement event. Free registration @ https://sri-csl.regfox.com/digital-wallets-challenge
[2020-09-22T16:22:12.985Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-09-22T16:22:18.873Z]	<kimhd>	ack wayne
[2020-09-22T16:23:14.142Z]	<voip-ccg>	Conference started.
[2020-09-22T16:23:14.143Z]	<voip-ccg>	<no name> [SIP/pstn-2-000013f4] is in the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:23:14.835Z]	<voip-ccg>	<unknown> [SIP/pstn-2-000013f4] has joined the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:23:17.988Z]	<Jacksohne>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:23:58.122Z]	<Jacksohne>	Thank you!
[2020-09-22T16:24:21.897Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 13f4
[2020-09-22T16:24:21.948Z]	<voip-ccg>	Disconnecting <unknown> [SIP/pstn-2-000013f4].
[2020-09-22T16:24:21.978Z]	<voip-ccg>	<unknown> [SIP/pstn-2-000013f4] has left the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:24:21.978Z]	<voip-ccg>	No one is in the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:24:21.978Z]	<voip-ccg>	Performing administrative duties before leaving channel...
[2020-09-22T16:24:25.795Z]	<voip-ccg>	Published raw IRC log to https://w3c-ccg.s3.digitalbazaar.com/minutes/2020-09-22-irc.log
[2020-09-22T16:24:32.480Z]	<Phil>	Yes
[2020-09-22T16:24:41.935Z]	<voip-ccg>	Published raw audio to https://w3c-ccg.s3.digitalbazaar.com/minutes/2020-09-22-audio.wav ...
[2020-09-22T16:24:44.013Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Looks great!
[2020-09-22T16:24:58.039Z]	<identitywoman>	Kim: Andi Hindle
[2020-09-22T16:25:44.352Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: works in identity for 14 years and chairs the content committee at Identiverse and participates in a range of standards groups mostly lurking
[2020-09-22T16:26:18.882Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: moments to orient to Identiverse, overview of some of the key things touched on, wrap up with a brief introduction next year.
[2020-09-22T16:26:52.147Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: originated in 2010 as the cloud identity summit - founder and CEO of PingIdentity still founding sponsor. Run as an industry conference
[2020-09-22T16:27:13.091Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: the core focus is identity touching on security and privacy too. More conference heavy then expo heavy.
[2020-09-22T16:27:37.513Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: 2020 we were originally planned to be in Denver - needed refactoring.
[2020-09-22T16:28:03.423Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: everyone had to work out the best way to do this. We had a good fortune to follow IIW.
[2020-09-22T16:28:43.982Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: we had 80 hours of programmed conference - we spread out the conference over 8 weeks with presentations each day - virtual networking in the sessions and outside of the sessions.
[2020-09-22T16:28:56.705Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Pre-record the presentations.
[2020-09-22T16:30:01.704Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Highlights it is tricky to do this. 80 hours of content is a lot and kind of impossible to cover a lot.
[2020-09-22T16:30:31.007Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: a lot of over lap with the statistics - most viewed and watched. Tried to pick a few things from each of the major topic areas.
[2020-09-22T16:30:45.416Z]	<kimhd>	I'm back
[2020-09-22T16:30:45.609Z]	<Moses>	Bug: recording stopped and restarted
[2020-09-22T16:30:56.247Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: left happens every year
[2020-09-22T16:30:56.461Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2020-09-22T16:31:31.566Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Right hand side topics we typically cover but at variousing levels of amount.
[2020-09-22T16:31:53.328Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: UX at the top was a thematic focus for the year. We were trying to make sure we covered it.
[2020-09-22T16:31:59.175Z]	<voip-ccg>	Conference started.
[2020-09-22T16:31:59.176Z]	<voip-ccg>	ORGEL JEFF [SIP/pstn-2-000013f5] is in the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:31:59.824Z]	<voip-ccg>	ORGEL JEFF [SIP/pstn-2-000013f5] has joined the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:31:59.851Z]	<voip-ccg>	ORGEL JEFF [SIP/pstn-2-000013f5] has left the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:31:59.851Z]	<voip-ccg>	No one is in the conference.
[2020-09-22T16:31:59.852Z]	<voip-ccg>	Performing administrative duties before leaving channel...
[2020-09-22T16:32:03.937Z]	<voip-ccg>	Published raw IRC log to https://w3c-ccg.s3.digitalbazaar.com/minutes/2020-09-22-irc.log
[2020-09-22T16:32:23.019Z]	<voip-ccg>	Published raw audio to https://w3c-ccg.s3.digitalbazaar.com/minutes/2020-09-22-audio.wav ...
[2020-09-22T16:32:28.581Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Has taken a screen shot of the topics in the user-experience area.
[2020-09-22T16:32:46.043Z]	<Kim>	Anil, I meant to repeat what you posted about the wallet competition. We can remind everyone at the end of the call
[2020-09-22T16:32:49.931Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: This topic infused many other topics.
[2020-09-22T16:33:02.558Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Thanks for your patience Andi
[2020-09-22T16:33:02.958Z]	<Kim>	Anil -- can we add it to our announcements&reminders page?
[2020-09-22T16:33:18.010Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: was good to get folks from outside of identity, security, privacy - group of UX researchers at google - trying to understand how people interact with identity systems.
[2020-09-22T16:33:46.167Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: not everyone uses identity the way that identity people think about identity - has real implications for how people use it for real use-cases. Not just enteprise setting.
[2020-09-22T16:34:04.927Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: As soon as you get outside Enterprise systems you have real challenges.
[2020-09-22T16:34:21.545Z]	<Kim>	sorry, just saw Manu's comment. My computer crashed the second Andi started speaking. And yes, we are exploring whether Anil's webcam was involved
[2020-09-22T16:34:30.330Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Where is the User in User Experience? By ____. also had good things to share.
[2020-09-22T16:34:41.326Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Privacy is something we covered with ethics and governance.
[2020-09-22T16:35:37.595Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: ISC and IAPP for CECs.
[2020-09-22T16:36:13.925Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Hard in virtual content - want to make exciting and engaging. We are fortunate to have a number of people who are outstanding presentors. Making things that get issues across in interesting ways.
[2020-09-22T16:36:46.723Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Jeremy Grant gave a good presentations about challenges of CCPA - using rock songs.
[2020-09-22T16:37:04.294Z]	<Kim>	/me  :heart:
[2020-09-22T16:37:09.187Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Katherine Harrison gave a good presentation on deep fakes.
[2020-09-22T16:37:44.310Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Trust in what we see, trust in what we hear, this has a big role.
[2020-09-22T16:38:00.447Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: security takes up a lot of the overall agenda time. it is tricky.
[2020-09-22T16:38:14.855Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: its all about security.
[2020-09-22T16:38:47.282Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Deep dive stuff - homomorphic encryption is it real through to more practical things Privileged Access Management.
[2020-09-22T16:39:09.602Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Neshant gave a very real mission impossible talk through myths and realities.
[2020-09-22T16:39:41.920Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Alex Winer at MSFT gave a real time demo of how identity systems get compromised to understand the risks.
[2020-09-22T16:40:07.563Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Authorization as a topic - this has a lot of active work now. Activity in the standards space and solving deployment issues.
[2020-09-22T16:40:41.587Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: not totally surprising
[2020-09-22T16:41:10.697Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Standards is core to what we do each here - there are a lot of standards there is an incresing number. We can't cover everything every year. if you look at it across 2-3 years.
[2020-09-22T16:41:28.313Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: some come and then go away - then come back once they are in deployments.
[2020-09-22T16:41:48.940Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: why didn't cover verifiable credentials stuff? was touched on a few presentations.
[2020-09-22T16:42:13.188Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: had some coverage decentralized digital identity mostly from a OpenID presentations.
[2020-09-22T16:43:12.787Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: So how architecture and deployments tends to be where we get the standards and solidified and reified in architecthures and deployment along with real experiments with axilary things. Thomson Rueters did a very interesting experiment he shared about multiple clouds.
[2020-09-22T16:43:46.755Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Practical examples from EA.
[2020-09-22T16:44:00.885Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: very interesting from industry as a whole. understanding the us-cases is telling.
[2020-09-22T16:44:32.715Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: how they are having to stich them together. Another one pulled out here - panel on scaling strong authentication - mainly around FIDO.
[2020-09-22T16:44:51.028Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-09-22T16:45:48.185Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: one of the challenges medium to almost large enterprise. As soon as you look at it on a consume scale or global enterprise scale. Token delivery, token replacement. Someone at NIST suggested we hold a panel about this. To talk about this in forums that the industry as a whole can start to particiapte.
[2020-09-22T16:46:25.976Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Good presentation from ____ workday
[2020-09-22T16:46:44.709Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Steve Wilson gave a deep thoughtful provoking talk - Identity as data.
[2020-09-22T16:47:02.301Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Sep/0051.html
[2020-09-22T16:47:06.236Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: What it is the industry can and does do for them.
[2020-09-22T16:47:30.397Z]	<heathervescent>	Awe - thanks Andi! ps. all images in the deck are from GITS!
[2020-09-22T16:47:31.965Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Heather gave a presentation on deep fakes with a different perspective.
[2020-09-22T16:48:04.246Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: we had headliner presentation some but not all would be keynotes. Ian Glazer
[2020-09-22T16:48:36.662Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: his presentation was on the future of identity next 10-15 years. has a large volume of slides.
[2020-09-22T16:49:10.529Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: a number of panels - looking at identity privacy and security and how they fit together don't fit together.
[2020-09-22T16:49:33.436Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: series of interviews with Henry Rawlands - punk rocker - broadcaster.
[2020-09-22T16:49:45.372Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: he did interviews with several folks.
[2020-09-22T16:50:03.315Z]	<kimhd>	s/Rawlands/Rollins
[2020-09-22T16:50:19.350Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Getting folks to engage hard so an interview with him was a way to get them to present.
[2020-09-22T16:50:28.504Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: wasn't quite the same as being in person
[2020-09-22T16:50:42.618Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: covered topics on diversity and eithics.
[2020-09-22T16:50:54.964Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Andre and Esther Dyson had a great conversation
[2020-09-22T16:51:09.075Z]	<identitywoman>	Question: where can we see the presentations - are they on youtube?
[2020-09-22T16:51:30.647Z]	<kimhd>	q+ to ask where the presentations are
[2020-09-22T16:52:06.864Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Next year - dates are set 20-23 of June and if we can - some part will be in physical format - likely virtual too.
[2020-09-22T16:52:17.635Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: Call for presentations is open in October.
[2020-09-22T16:52:48.205Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi:  New archive on identiverse.com
[2020-09-22T16:53:28.234Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2020-09-22T16:53:41.589Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-09-22T16:53:43.877Z]	<kimhd>	ack agropper
[2020-09-22T16:54:00.528Z]	<identitywoman>	Adrian: any impression on human centered design.
[2020-09-22T16:54:07.013Z]	<identitywoman>	Adrian: yes and no
[2020-09-22T16:54:22.099Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: yes and no - trite response we have a lot of work to do as an industry.
[2020-09-22T16:54:30.443Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Great recap Andi!
[2020-09-22T16:54:49.138Z]	<kimhd>	Identiverse on youtube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUOo7SSG-a4yk8-11kPDKqg
[2020-09-22T16:54:53.995Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: helping people to understand how to deal with a passwordless universe - consumers are not near this. We have for 20 years trained them to have strong passwords.
[2020-09-22T16:55:41.364Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: When you take them to a passwordless environment - that can't be safe - a lot of training work to do - the other thing emerging around decentralized identity - we need to clear we are solving problems people actually care about.
[2020-09-22T16:55:43.694Z]	<kimhd>	+1
[2020-09-22T16:56:08.632Z]	<identitywoman>	Andi: that is worth baring in mind. We have run into it in some of the other user-centric work.
[2020-09-22T16:56:46.519Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-09-22T16:57:09.204Z]	<identitywoman>	Kim: thank you Andi. Thank you Kaliya for scribing.
[2020-09-22T16:57:22.083Z]	<identitywoman>	Kim: Anil there is a wallet design competition going on.
[2020-09-22T16:57:35.509Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-09-22T16:57:41.008Z]	<identitywoman>	Kim: Thank you.
[2020-09-22T16:57:46.134Z]	<wayne>	thank you kaliya!!!!
[2020-09-22T16:57:48.212Z]	<wayne>	great scribing
[2020-09-22T16:57:57.565Z]	<kimhd>	indeed great scribing
[2020-09-22T16:58:00.207Z]	<Andi_Hindle>	Thanks everyone for listening!
[2020-09-22T16:58:15.499Z]	<Moses>	Bye all!
[2020-09-22T16:59:12.951Z]	<manu>	voip: connections?
[2020-09-22T16:59:24.458Z]	<manu>	voip: disconnect 5bc8
