Thanks to russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) and Our Robot Overlords and russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-06-13-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-06-13-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-06-13

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jun&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) and Our Robot Overlords and russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io)
Present:
  Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Adam C, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), Nis Jespersen , Ben, Russell Hofvendahl, Orie 
  Steele

russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) is scribing.
<ben> thank you Russell!
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Nis Jespersen :  Trace interop week
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/559
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/560
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/561
Russell Hofvendahl:  559 Interop tests, 560 openapi and docs, 561 
  conformance tests
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Statuslist2021 going through changes in the 
  near future
Nis Jespersen : +1
Orie Steele:  Same thing as Mahmoud. Process wise would have been 
  good to create new suites for new feature
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Though don't have any references to 
  statuslist2020
Orie Steele:  Good to keep both until get migration
Nis Jespersen :  Great, let's leave for next week
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/560
Nis Jespersen :  560 Then. mahmoud, couple of comments? orie as 
  well?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  All 3 up to 561 are same package
<orie> there is not reason that we need to pick between
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  More important to have statuslist2021 as 
  default, than revlist2020. If you run into compromises
<orie> its possible to keep demonstrating support for both.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  No I did not start recording.
russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/563
Nis Jespersen :  Moving on, 563
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Adds vivien to authors
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/564
Nis Jespersen :  564
Orie Steele: +1
<orie> yes, excellent PR
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Tried to make readme more clear. bn trace 
  interop and vocab, way its set up, lots of desyncing that 
  happens. kept instructions all in trace interop side, linked to 
  it from sister pr on trace vocab side.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/797
Nis Jespersen :  Great, merging, on to trace vocab
Adam: this PR to add workflows to openapi yaml file, so can 
  import workflows. Did some refactoring, openapi yaml file has 
  separate refs for paths, easier to maintain. Didn't see that npm 
  install on trace schemas package has schemasToOpenapi.js file. 
  Need tor evisit, make sure that script writes file as proposing 
  in PR
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/803
Orie Steele:  Blocked, see comments
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/805
Nis Jespersen :  803, Add tallted, merged
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/807
Nis Jespersen :  805, Enough approvals, merged
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/808
Nis Jespersen :  807 Merged. 808, ben?
Ben: built on that, added boolean, mahmoud comment?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Since nis merged commercial invoice cred, 
  why are we still seeing delta for that? github funny?
Nis Jespersen :  Yeah on github
Ben: look on convo page, first one is commit from nis fix 
  optionality
Nis Jespersen :  Sad we'll be removing pro forma invoice. Out in 
  industry get a lot of credit for work for sheer number of schemas
Orie Steele:  We don't need schemas that implement same 
  semantics, but isProforma is very poor JsonLD
Nis Jespersen :  Counterproposal, copy inline commercial invoice, 
  turn it into proforma. Choose one you need, if you don't need 
  proforma then leave it
Orie Steele:  Not gonna meet consensus I think. Ppl want single 
  schema, want to know if proforma or not.
Nis Jespersen :  Alright. formally no objections, ben could you 
  fix isProforma thing?
Ben: how?
Nis Jespersen :  Merge and pr later?
Ben: feedback is, want to have single invoice cred with flag, & 
  bad semantics seems like a separate issue
Nis Jespersen :  We can choose to work more on semantics before 
  we merge
Ben: prefer to merge and create a new issue
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/809
Nis Jespersen :  Objections to merging 808? merging
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Couldn't find ref, "these are steps need to 
  do after you change vocab term", nothing saying "do x to sign 
  creds". unless im missing it
Nis Jespersen :  Sure, so merge and fix subsequently?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Yeah
<orie> merge first, ask questions later
<orie> et..
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/810
Nis Jespersen :  Great, merging.
<orie> good improvement
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Weird. discussed this, hashlinks don't have 
  semantic meaning, end of result to move it add url to array, 
  update id to point to actual thing, trace product. As going thru, 
  nis mentioned why not point it to schema.org product. As it 
  stands nothing pointing to trace product, maybe future PR remove 
  that?
Nis Jespersen :  Any concerns? merging.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/453
Nis Jespersen :  453, Allow jwt in creds verify, chris
Orie Steele:  (No chris) in general need to start thinking of jwt 
  formatted creds. Adding different content types as supporting 
  args, in general. If I were to tackle, would start by updating 
  all schema defs to be oneOf, then concrete schemas for those 
  types. That's my rec.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/460
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/464
<ben> there's no such thing as "too american"
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/485
<orie> i literally typeed thiat
<orie> then delerted it
<mahmoud_alkhraishi> americans...
Nis Jespersen :  Anything else on 453? no, on to 460, also from 
  chris, been around for a while
<nis> LOL ^
Ben: scope, make sure we have reqs, problem of sending wrong 
  creds. Sent invoice from customer, but sent wrong invoice, need 
  to say "hey dont associate this". Main thing is to ger reqs so 
  can check implementation against
Nis Jespersen : +1
Orie Steele:  Have to assume verifier won't comply with delete 
  reqs. First is send correct data, second is communicate "hey I 
  sent other data". Analogy, in healthcare, sometimes send wrong 
  patient records. "hey I sent wrong info, here's right & make sure 
  delete that".
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So need to send second cred, might not share 
  id of original. Second cred is correct data. & send instruction, 
  please replace
Orie Steele:  First yes, second implementation detail might not 
  get concensus.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So first part, sending new cred with correct 
  data new cred id? Or old cred id?
Orie Steele:  Doesn't matter. prez needs to be correct, will 
  never be same ID
Ben: & depends who the issuer was. ctpat record, have on file, 
  associate wrong thing, might not be able to
Orie Steele:  Send correct data, doc what correct data looks 
  like, creds will conform to our spec if in our vocab, otherwise 
  don't know what fields present. id optional, whatever. also say 
  "you should communicate out of band to verifier that you sent 
  wrong thing"
Nis Jespersen :  Any volunteers?
<orie> Nominating Nis to update respec document
Ben: all need to do is update spec doc?
<nis> lol
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Need statement, expected behavior 1 2 3, 
  don't believe tests we're talking about now. so yeah just respec.
<orie> i gave you the text
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/468
Nis Jespersen :  Ok, I'll do it.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Have had separate convos with other parties. 
  one thing vc does, anyone can expect, expects issuer to just 
  issue. Should be up to issuer to determine IDs. When client 
  requests credential, if they provide ID it should be 404. Should 
  be up to issuer.
Orie Steele:  Our spec says ID is req'd on creds we define schema 
  and shape for. You're saying issuer resp for assigning ID. Asign 
  that prior to protecting.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think manu said something, unsure if 
  addressed
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Have we made that statement, issuer resp not 
  the client?
Orie Steele:  Same party in internal facing, kind of weird
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We've said in past, treat every endpt as 
  cross domain, treat as such
Orie Steele:  Treat all as needing security, but client ID 
  needing server, not public ID exposed. ID client can't request id 
  seems incorrect, cause same ID. Client setting all other claims
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Chris's original point, bad actor can, but 
  not actually true
Orie Steele:  Long running confusion, not sure how to fix without 
  being more clear in respec, probably what we need
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Looking at end, chris says discussed on 
  call.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/468#issuecomment-1334024036
Orie Steele:  I'd close this, not helpful, look at req'd fields 
  client must provide. If cred ID in fields & marked req'd, 400 if 
  absent. If not in there should be, 400, there & not supposed to 
  be also 400.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I think that's where chris ended up going.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/openapi/#post-/credentials/issue
Orie Steele:  What we get back to api and send are two separate 
  thing
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  ID shouldn't be req'd what sent, should be 
  on returned back
Orie Steele:  400 If provide ID?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  No, may or may not send it, issuer may or 
  may not use it
Orie Steele:  So long as says somewhere in respec, plain english, 
  can be done
Nis Jespersen :  Any volunteers to copy option 4 into respec?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Chris already assigned
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/438
Nis Jespersen :  438 Open wallet foundation, orie?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/562
Orie Steele:  Can close, no longer pursuing open wallet. They 
  asked, they're chugging along I think, but no longer interested
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Bumping up 562. As far as know jws being 
  withdrawn, orie updates on status? Issue need to remove jws from 
  spec, what do we replace with?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/draft/#integration-considerations
Orie Steele:  Need to remove rdf type, doesn't make sense 
  anymore. Remove any refs to jws 2020. May add sentence, "if 
  you're interested in securing w this thing deprecated, consider 
  other thing", point to vc-jwt
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  If remove ref to jws 2020, put in ref for 
  vc-jwt?
Orie Steele:  Remove 2018, remove 2020, decide if want data 
  integrity proofs, decide if support vc-jwt.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So good to open PR removes 2018 2020?
Orie Steele:  Yes. Knew would have problem on test side. Prev 
  signing things all the time, no longer need to include examples 
  with proofs.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Updating ticket
<orie> thank you!
Nis Jespersen :  Assigning mahmoud.
