[2023-06-13T17:32:02.225Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	present+
[2023-06-13T17:32:02.226Z]	<Adam_C>	present+
[2023-06-13T17:32:10.494Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-06-13T17:32:13.032Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-06-13T17:32:22.762Z]	<Adam_C>	present+
[2023-06-13T17:32:28.418Z]	<Ben>	present+
[2023-06-13T17:32:52.077Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-06-13T17:32:53.445Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-06-13T17:33:49.135Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2023-06-13T17:33:51.498Z]	<Ben>	thank you Russell!
[2023-06-13T17:34:10.373Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2023-06-13T17:34:20.002Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: trace interop week
[2023-06-13T17:34:20.237Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/559
[2023-06-13T17:35:15.632Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/560
[2023-06-13T17:35:24.084Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/561
[2023-06-13T17:36:37.380Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	russell: 559 interop tests, 560 openapi and docs, 561 conformance tests
[2023-06-13T17:37:25.130Z]	<nis>	ack orie
[2023-06-13T17:37:30.050Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: statuslist2021 going through changes in the near future

One changes "statuslist2021entry" to "statuslistentry"

Two ways, one we merge then fix the tests, I'd rec
[2023-06-13T17:37:46.737Z]	<nis>	+1
[2023-06-13T17:38:24.380Z]	<nis>	ack russel
[2023-06-13T17:39:42.454Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Same thing as Mahmoud. Process wise would have been good to create new suites for new feature

Poor form to break things, better to make alongside
[2023-06-13T17:39:55.554Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: Though don't have any references to statuslist2020
[2023-06-13T17:40:12.864Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Good to keep both until get migration
[2023-06-13T17:40:47.954Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: great, let's leave for next week
[2023-06-13T17:40:56.120Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/560
[2023-06-13T17:41:13.240Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 560 then. mahmoud, couple of comments? orie as well?
[2023-06-13T17:41:43.526Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: all 3 up to 561 are same package
[2023-06-13T17:43:07.369Z]	<Orie>	there is not reason that we need to pick between
[2023-06-13T17:43:16.578Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: more important to have statuslist2021 as default, than revlist2020. If you run into compromises
[2023-06-13T17:43:19.736Z]	<Orie>	its possible to keep demonstrating support for both.
[2023-06-13T17:43:26.368Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-06-13T17:43:26.368Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-06-13T17:43:34.597Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahmoud_Alkhraishi: No I did not start recording.
[2023-06-13T17:43:49.637Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2023-06-13T17:43:57.314Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/563
[2023-06-13T17:44:07.095Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: moving on, 563
[2023-06-13T17:44:21.225Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: adds vivien to authors
[2023-06-13T17:44:22.715Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/564
[2023-06-13T17:44:36.442Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 564
[2023-06-13T17:44:40.053Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2023-06-13T17:45:32.180Z]	<Orie>	yes, excellent PR
[2023-06-13T17:45:42.946Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: tried to make readme more clear. bn trace interop and vocab, way its set up, lots of desyncing that happens. kept instructions all in trace interop side, linked to it from sister pr on trace vocab side.
[2023-06-13T17:45:47.044Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2023-06-13T17:45:57.017Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/797
[2023-06-13T17:46:09.891Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: great, merging, on to trace vocab

797, adam, introduce?
[2023-06-13T17:47:41.686Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	adam: this PR to add workflows to openapi yaml file, so can import workflows. Did some refactoring, openapi yaml file has separate refs for paths, easier to maintain. Didn't see that npm install on trace schemas package has schemasToOpenapi.js file. Need tor evisit, make sure that script writes file as proposing in PR

Essentially to add workflows
[2023-06-13T17:47:43.939Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/803
[2023-06-13T17:47:47.621Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Blocked, see comments
[2023-06-13T17:48:19.375Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/805
[2023-06-13T17:48:55.534Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 803, add tallted, merged
[2023-06-13T17:49:05.994Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/807
[2023-06-13T17:49:31.812Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 805, enough approvals, merged

807
[2023-06-13T17:49:49.065Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/808
[2023-06-13T17:50:05.150Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	q+
[2023-06-13T17:50:13.937Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 807 merged. 808, ben?
[2023-06-13T17:50:29.613Z]	<nis>	q+
[2023-06-13T17:50:39.056Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: built on that, added boolean, mahmoud comment?
[2023-06-13T17:52:07.128Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: since nis merged commercial invoice cred, why are we still seeing delta for that? github funny?
[2023-06-13T17:52:11.617Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: yeah on github
[2023-06-13T17:52:22.909Z]	<nis>	ack nis
[2023-06-13T17:52:27.102Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: look on convo page, first one is commit from nis fix optionality
[2023-06-13T17:52:57.906Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: sad we'll be removing pro forma invoice. Out in industry get a lot of credit for work for sheer number of schemas

Start removing work lose that
[2023-06-13T17:52:58.638Z]	<nis>	ack orie
[2023-06-13T17:54:23.419Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: we don't need schemas that implement same semantics, but isProforma is very poor JsonLD

Echoing you nis, how we're perceived externally, look at this schema see isProforma prop aren't going to think highly of us.

Want more jsonld sugar, less json schema boolean
[2023-06-13T17:54:49.625Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: counterproposal, copy inline commercial invoice, turn it into proforma. Choose one you need, if you don't need proforma then leave it
[2023-06-13T17:55:23.173Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Not gonna meet consensus I think. Ppl want single schema, want to know if proforma or not.
[2023-06-13T17:55:45.699Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: alright. formally no objections, ben could you fix isProforma thing?
[2023-06-13T17:55:49.960Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: how?
[2023-06-13T17:56:03.154Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: merge and pr later?
[2023-06-13T17:56:24.489Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: feedback is, want to have single invoice cred with flag, & bad semantics seems like a separate issue
[2023-06-13T17:56:38.553Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: we can choose to work more on semantics before we merge
[2023-06-13T17:56:47.502Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: prefer to merge and create a new issue
[2023-06-13T17:57:07.077Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/809
[2023-06-13T17:57:15.172Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: objections to merging 808? merging

Few more, 809 from mahmoud
[2023-06-13T17:58:17.376Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: couldn't find ref, "these are steps need to do after you change vocab term", nothing saying "do x to sign creds". unless im missing it

This just moves meetings from base readme
[2023-06-13T17:58:27.839Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: sure, so merge and fix subsequently?
[2023-06-13T17:58:33.093Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: yeah
[2023-06-13T17:58:46.669Z]	<Orie>	merge first, ask questions later
[2023-06-13T17:58:51.223Z]	<Orie>	et..
[2023-06-13T17:58:51.264Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/810
[2023-06-13T17:59:04.826Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: great, merging.

810, mahmoud?
[2023-06-13T18:00:08.024Z]	<Orie>	good improvement
[2023-06-13T18:00:08.923Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: weird. discussed this, hashlinks don't have semantic meaning, end of result to move it add url to array, update id to point to actual thing, trace product. As going thru, nis mentioned why not point it to schema.org product. As it stands nothing pointing to trace product, maybe future PR remove that?
[2023-06-13T18:00:25.427Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: any concerns? merging.

No more PRs, back to trace interop issues
[2023-06-13T18:00:27.623Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-06-13T18:00:35.950Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/453
[2023-06-13T18:00:59.473Z]	<nis>	ack orie
[2023-06-13T18:01:04.355Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 453, allow jwt in creds verify, chris
[2023-06-13T18:02:19.350Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	q+
[2023-06-13T18:02:38.553Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: (no chris) in general need to start thinking of jwt formatted creds. Adding different content types as supporting args, in general. If I were to tackle, would start by updating all schema defs to be oneOf, then concrete schemas for those types. That's my rec.

On statuslist2021, transmute not intending to support for proofs
[2023-06-13T18:02:38.800Z]	<nis>	ack mahmoud
[2023-06-13T18:02:59.896Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	ack mahmoud
[2023-06-13T18:03:32.150Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/460
[2023-06-13T18:04:04.752Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/464
[2023-06-13T18:04:52.473Z]	<Ben>	there's no such thing as "too american"
[2023-06-13T18:04:58.054Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/485
[2023-06-13T18:04:59.965Z]	<Orie>	i literally typeed thiat
[2023-06-13T18:05:03.786Z]	<Orie>	then delerted it
[2023-06-13T18:05:06.084Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	americans...
[2023-06-13T18:05:24.421Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: anything else on 453? no, on to 460, also from chris, been around for a while

mentioning chris

464, workflows overly american, changed a week ago (rewrote workflows section on respec), closing

485, ben
[2023-06-13T18:05:27.073Z]	<nis>	LOL ^
[2023-06-13T18:06:00.471Z]	<nis>	ack orie
[2023-06-13T18:06:08.833Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: scope, make sure we have reqs, problem of sending wrong creds. Sent invoice from customer, but sent wrong invoice, need to say "hey dont associate this". Main thing is to ger reqs so can check implementation against
[2023-06-13T18:07:26.773Z]	<nis>	+1
[2023-06-13T18:07:30.210Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Have to assume verifier won't comply with delete reqs. First is send correct data, second is communicate "hey I sent other data". Analogy, in healthcare, sometimes send wrong patient records. "hey I sent wrong info, here's right & make sure delete that".

What I said needs to be explained in spec to nontechnical person
[2023-06-13T18:07:55.222Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: so need to send second cred, might not share id of original. Second cred is correct data. & send instruction, please replace
[2023-06-13T18:08:09.517Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: First yes, second implementation detail might not get concensus.
[2023-06-13T18:08:31.939Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: So first part, sending new cred with correct data new cred id? Or old cred id?
[2023-06-13T18:08:55.913Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Doesn't matter. prez needs to be correct, will never be same ID

Cred id won't be same for two diff patient records
[2023-06-13T18:09:25.289Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Ben: & depends who the issuer was. ctpat record, have on file, associate wrong thing, might not be able to
[2023-06-13T18:10:06.665Z]	<nis>	q?
[2023-06-13T18:10:15.797Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Send correct data, doc what correct data looks like, creds will conform to our spec if in our vocab, otherwise don't know what fields present. id optional, whatever. also say "you should communicate out of band to verifier that you sent wrong thing"
[2023-06-13T18:10:25.703Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: any volunteers?
[2023-06-13T18:10:31.761Z]	<Orie>	Nominating Nis to update respec document
[2023-06-13T18:10:34.942Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: all need to do is update spec doc?
[2023-06-13T18:10:57.319Z]	<nis>	lol
[2023-06-13T18:11:03.386Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: need statement, expected behavior 1 2 3, don't believe tests we're talking about now. so yeah just respec.
[2023-06-13T18:11:05.181Z]	<Orie>	i gave you the text
[2023-06-13T18:11:26.041Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/468
[2023-06-13T18:12:21.955Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: ok, I'll do it.

Moving on, 458, from chris, method for referencing stored VCs
[2023-06-13T18:13:29.098Z]	<nis>	ack orie
[2023-06-13T18:13:31.454Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: have had separate convos with other parties. one thing vc does, anyone can expect, expects issuer to just issue. Should be up to issuer to determine IDs. When client requests credential, if they provide ID it should be 404. Should be up to issuer.
[2023-06-13T18:14:27.139Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Our spec says ID is req'd on creds we define schema and shape for. You're saying issuer resp for assigning ID. Asign that prior to protecting.

Also saying, status endp trelies on cred id, posted by issuer as well, sure

What concrete changes do we need to make?
[2023-06-13T18:14:44.416Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: I think manu said something, unsure if addressed
[2023-06-13T18:15:22.309Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: have we made that statement, issuer resp not the client?

Behavior chris is asking for, should reject if verifier provides
[2023-06-13T18:15:55.559Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Same party in internal facing, kind of weird

Client has authenticated in same sec context as server. Not cross trust cred issuance
[2023-06-13T18:16:21.992Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: We've said in past, treat every endpt as cross domain, treat as such

If we're making exception, should note that somewhere
[2023-06-13T18:17:05.664Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Treat all as needing security, but client ID needing server, not public ID exposed. ID client can't request id seems incorrect, cause same ID. Client setting all other claims
[2023-06-13T18:17:35.422Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: Chris's original point, bad actor can, but not actually true
[2023-06-13T18:17:55.264Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Long running confusion, not sure how to fix without being more clear in respec, probably what we need
[2023-06-13T18:18:09.078Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: Looking at end, chris says discussed on call.
[2023-06-13T18:18:37.225Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/468#issuecomment-1334024036
[2023-06-13T18:19:03.974Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: I'd close this, not helpful, look at req'd fields client must provide. If cred ID in fields & marked req'd, 400 if absent. If not in there should be, 400, there & not supposed to be also 400.

Should be 400 category in conformance, pos and neg tests
[2023-06-13T18:19:23.960Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: I think that's where chris ended up going.

Our spec says we must return val for id
[2023-06-13T18:19:24.889Z]	<nis>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/openapi/#post-/credentials/issue
[2023-06-13T18:19:34.726Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: What we get back to api and send are two separate thing
[2023-06-13T18:19:49.187Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: ID shouldn't be req'd what sent, should be on returned back
[2023-06-13T18:19:54.645Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: 400 if provide ID?
[2023-06-13T18:20:07.383Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: No, may or may not send it, issuer may or may not use it
[2023-06-13T18:20:22.422Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: So long as says somewhere in respec, plain english, can be done
[2023-06-13T18:20:46.190Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: any volunteers to copy option 4 into respec?
[2023-06-13T18:20:52.310Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: chris already assigned
[2023-06-13T18:20:57.245Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/438
[2023-06-13T18:21:03.590Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: 438 open wallet foundation, orie?
[2023-06-13T18:21:41.068Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/562
[2023-06-13T18:21:42.649Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Can close, no longer pursuing open wallet. They asked, they're chugging along I think, but no longer interested
[2023-06-13T18:22:17.438Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: bumping up 562. As far as know jws being withdrawn, orie updates on status? Issue need to remove jws from spec, what do we replace with?
[2023-06-13T18:23:09.866Z]	<Mahmoud_Alkhraishi>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/draft/#integration-considerations
[2023-06-13T18:23:22.060Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Need to remove rdf type, doesn't make sense anymore. Remove any refs to jws 2020. May add sentence, "if you're interested in securing w this thing deprecated, consider other thing", point to vc-jwt
[2023-06-13T18:23:42.577Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: If remove ref to jws 2020, put in ref for vc-jwt?
[2023-06-13T18:24:03.853Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Remove 2018, remove 2020, decide if want data integrity proofs, decide if support vc-jwt.
[2023-06-13T18:24:15.582Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: so good to open PR removes 2018 2020?
[2023-06-13T18:25:08.162Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: yes. Knew would have problem on test side. Prev signing things all the time, no longer need to include examples with proofs.

Need to remove proofs, other is adding ex signing with jwt
[2023-06-13T18:25:16.055Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: updating ticket
[2023-06-13T18:25:37.658Z]	<Orie>	thank you!
[2023-06-13T18:25:38.834Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: assigning mahmoud.

Let's wrap up, leave 5mins for whoever volunteers for minutes
