Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-11-29-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-11-29-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2022-11-29

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Nov/0155.html
Action Items:
  1. clarify options in interop #468 and initiate polling
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io)
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Jim M, Yinghui (Vivien) Fan, Benjamin 
  (Transmute), Russell Hofvendahl, Paul Dietrich GS1, Chris 
  Abernethy, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), 
  Orie Steele

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah I'm happy to describe it 
  looks like there might be a transcriber the.
russell_hofvendahl_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/471
<chris_abernethy> I'm here
<chris_abernethy> 1 sec audio
Nis Jespersen :  Announcements?
Nis Jespersen :  For clarification, not conformance?
Chris Abernethy:  Both [conformance and interop are updated]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/634
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/636
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/638
Nis Jespersen :  Fantastic, that was one PR trace interop, 
  switching to trace vocab
Russell Hofvendahl:  638, Organic product certification
<orie> For example:
Nis Jespersen :  Should this be a credential?
Orie Steele:  A bit confusing to have "certificate"
Russell Hofvendahl:  Will make note to change 
  "organicCertificate" to "organicCertification" later with future 
  PR
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/639
Nis Jespersen :  Next 639 gap location cert schema, russell
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/641
Nix: 641, russell
Nis Jespersen :  642, Russell
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/642
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/643
Nis Jespersen :  643, Ben
Ben: change to BOL cert, issue is they're not expanding [?]
<benjamin_(transmute)> examples are non-spanning
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/644
Nis Jespersen :  Any approvals? merged
Ben: Change request for mahmoud, but similar change. This narrows 
  scope of schema to fit specific example, not reduce optionality. 
  This is JSON replacing a specific form, having closer values to 
  what would expect
Jim M: So if we get into cross-border movement, these specific 
  terms would be required in-schema?
Nis Jespersen :  Commercial invoice like any other. Til recently 
  we pieced together cred schemas from full set of RDS building 
  blocks. What schemas reflect now is extremely big systems. These 
  are recent changes, to narrow it down. Ben selected specific 
  attrs to narrow it down to commercial invoice
Jim M: so truly commercial invoice between buyer and seller
Nis Jespersen :  Yes
Chris Abernethy: +1
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/645
Nis Jespersen :  If Mahmoud is onboard can merge between this 
  week and next week
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues
<benjamin_(transmute)> we have the revocation issue
Nis Jespersen :  On to issues. We've discussed not doing trace 
  interop all the time, only 14
<jim_m> I need to drop off. I will get  my ducks in order for the 
  issues that I would respond to on next weeks call.  Have a good 
  evening.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/468
Chris Abernethy:  Since last week [?] has had a chance to weigh 
  in on this, think these are worth reviewing
<orie> MUST and SHOULD / MAY.
Chris Abernethy:  Not possible for requester to guarantee they 
  are providing IDs unique to requester
Orie Steele:  You both might be talking abt diff endpts
Chris Abernethy:  On board, believe you suggested in update 
  endpt, someone who calls could provide identification in 
  credential, but might not be able to look up [?]
Orie Steele:  Not guaranteed uniqueness. Depends on issuer, if 
  assigned identifier & using consistently get but with addnl 
  constraints
Chris Abernethy:  Agree, esp with increased complexity you 
  pointed out
Orie Steele:  Have "id must be present" today
Chris Abernethy:  Not currently reflected in trace API schema, 
  will do
Orie Steele:  Should treat respec doc as source of true; openapi, 
  tests, others as secondary sources of truth
Chris Abernethy:  Think specifying process for generating IDs not 
  worth getting into. Issuer that generates, needs to be able to 
  use that later
Orie Steele:  Inference in there, assuming [?]. Issuer could just 
  do url example.123 for every cred, would conform with norm. 
  Unless want not legal, we do need to describe what needs to be
Chris Abernethy: +1 Orie
<orie> regardless of the choice, we need a PR to flush out this 
  section of the spec: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-vocab/#extensions-to-standard
Nis Jespersen :  What you're talking way into, issuing server 
  decides on ID, VC ID, consequences?
<orie> you could say it MUST be unique and it SHOULD be a 
  urn:uuid:v4.
Chris Abernethy:  I agree with both. Responding to Orie, yes 
  agree need specify instructions for that ID, misunderstood you. 
  Yes specify needs unique.
Nis Jespersen :  Sounds more like Manu's suggestion, we put it in 
  options?
Chris Abernethy:  Not quite
Orie Steele:  Accomplishing same thing, moving client provided 
  paramn from one object to another
Chris Abernethy:  But it's there in VC, I think issue here is how 
  it gets there
Orie Steele:  K was thinking more abt update endpt. If know it's 
  there can use ID in update endpt. In creation, can throw 400 
  error in value or assign one, or override what client does - 
  don't think we should do that
Chris Abernethy:  But then issue, a) removing option to do 
  something need to do, b) injecting data into cred
Orie Steele:  Already adding proof tho
Paul: So need some ref to this thing to call this update? Pass 
  whole object to update method?
Orie Steele:  But then would need to negotiate with everyone else
Paul: My issue is not clear what [?]
Orie Steele:  So clarify options in an issue, what choosing 
  between, then polling to figure out what option has strength, 
  then PR

ACTION: clarify options in interop #468 and initiate polling

Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/469
Nis Jespersen :  Can try to summarize some of this tomorrow
[...]
Paul: Customer said "just want a black box", as soon as delivered 
  just achieve fail, message that even for simple that verification 
  message really useful
Chris Abernethy:  Examples don't agree with spec rn
Nis Jespersen :  Would be enum of verification types right?
Chris Abernethy:  Yes
Chris Abernethy:  Having all use cases would be very helpful
Nis Jespersen :  Chris, don't understand what you said abt 
  oopenapi
Chris Abernethy:  Concerns abt writing test, so verifications 
  array of objects with status good/bad, list of titles, optional 
  description
Nis Jespersen :  Have decided to leave 5mins at end for 
  volunteer, so wrap this up now
Chris Abernethy:  Happy to
Nis Jespersen :  I'll agenda next wk as well
