[2022-11-29T18:30:01.236Z]	<nis>	present+
[2022-11-29T18:30:01.931Z]	<Jim_M>	present+
[2022-11-29T18:30:23.094Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-11-29T18:30:36.362Z]	<Benjamin_(Transmute)>	present+
[2022-11-29T18:31:08.232Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-11-29T18:31:47.275Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	present+
[2022-11-29T18:32:10.807Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-11-29T18:32:10.807Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2022-11-29T18:32:53.114Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-11-29T18:33:25.383Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah I'm happy to describe it looks like there might be a transcriber the.
[2022-11-29T18:33:30.956Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2022-11-29T18:34:05.595Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2022-11-29T18:34:14.434Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/471
[2022-11-29T18:34:32.482Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	I'm here
[2022-11-29T18:34:47.585Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	1 sec audio
[2022-11-29T18:35:28.583Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: announcements?

no, first PR (interop) 471, from chris, add gs1us implementation to test suite
[2022-11-29T18:36:13.948Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-11-29T18:37:18.010Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-11-29T18:37:30.628Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: for clarification, not conformance?
[2022-11-29T18:37:56.818Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: both [choppy]
[2022-11-29T18:38:54.805Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2022-11-29T18:38:59.854Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	s/choppy/conformance and interop are updated/
[2022-11-29T18:39:14.516Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2022-11-29T18:39:27.226Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/634
[2022-11-29T18:40:12.641Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/636
[2022-11-29T18:41:00.182Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/638
[2022-11-29T18:41:03.397Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: fantastic, that was one PR trace interop, switching to trace vocab

first, by me, 634: adding application cred to request certs added last time

See approvals, objections to new cert? merging

Next from me as well, 636, defining new workflows
[2022-11-29T18:42:45.098Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	russell: 638, organic product certification
[2022-11-29T18:44:32.965Z]	<Orie>	For example:

"type": [
      "VerifiableCredential",
      "UniversityDegreeCredential"
    ],
[2022-11-29T18:45:32.212Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: should this be a credential?

Could make revocable "required"

merge but later replace with credential?
[2022-11-29T18:46:22.473Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	orie: a bit confusing to have "certificate"
[2022-11-29T18:46:44.474Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	russell: will make note to change "organicCertificate" to "organicCertification" later with future PR
[2022-11-29T18:46:59.949Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/639
[2022-11-29T18:47:11.664Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: next 639 gap location cert schema, russell
[2022-11-29T18:48:49.084Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/641
[2022-11-29T18:48:53.086Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nix: 641, russell
[2022-11-29T18:49:32.816Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 642, russell
[2022-11-29T18:49:32.986Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/642
[2022-11-29T18:50:31.077Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/643
[2022-11-29T18:50:38.334Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: 643, ben
[2022-11-29T18:51:25.625Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: change to BOL cert, issue is they're not expanding [?]
[2022-11-29T18:51:40.616Z]	<Benjamin_(Transmute)>	examples are non-spanning
[2022-11-29T18:51:41.112Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/644
[2022-11-29T18:51:51.224Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: any approvals? merged

Ben, repeat for commercial invoice?
[2022-11-29T18:52:05.589Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Nov/0155.html
[2022-11-29T18:52:55.490Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	ben: Change request for mahmoud, but similar change. This narrows scope of schema to fit specific example, not reduce optionality. This is JSON replacing a specific form, having closer values to what would expect
[2022-11-29T18:53:23.407Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Jim M: So if we get into cross-border movement, these specific terms would be required in-schema?
[2022-11-29T18:54:33.116Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: commercial invoice like any other. Til recently we pieced together cred schemas from full set of RDS building blocks. What schemas reflect now is extremely big systems. These are recent changes, to narrow it down. Ben selected specific attrs to narrow it down to commercial invoice
[2022-11-29T18:54:44.737Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Jim M: so truly commercial invoice between buyer and seller
[2022-11-29T18:56:06.028Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: yes

Would be nice to have mahmoud, but merge?
[2022-11-29T18:56:21.220Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	+1
[2022-11-29T18:57:19.998Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/645
[2022-11-29T18:58:26.958Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: If Mahmoud is onboard can merge between this week and next week

Next, 645, same story

Mill test report had reqs all the way to entire invoice, but MTR doesn't include all that. This takes stuff out.

Will make same comment, can merge if Mahmoud OK
[2022-11-29T18:58:48.110Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues
[2022-11-29T18:58:59.330Z]	<Benjamin_(Transmute)>	we have the revocation issue
[2022-11-29T18:59:27.055Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: on to issues. We've discussed not doing trace interop all the time, only 14
[2022-11-29T18:59:34.957Z]	<Jim_M>	I need to drop off. I will get  my ducks in order for the issues that I would respond to on next weeks call.  Have a good evening.
[2022-11-29T19:00:19.990Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/468
[2022-11-29T19:01:34.277Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Since last week [?] has had a chance to weigh in on this, think these are worth reviewing

Some disagreement
[2022-11-29T19:01:35.191Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2022-11-29T19:01:43.751Z]	<Orie>	MUST and SHOULD / MAY.
[2022-11-29T19:02:07.700Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Not possible for requester to guarantee they are providing IDs unique to requester
[2022-11-29T19:03:47.476Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: You both might be talking abt diff endpts

Inbound of VC has points responsible for; on update status endpt can refer by something in cred or by ref something in server

Can make one param's "actual verif ID", another "ref to"

Issuance part a little trickier, agree Chris, caller has no idea which parts of namespace might be reserved; so dangerous to let qualifier pick identifiers like that
[2022-11-29T19:04:22.355Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: on board, believe you suggested in update endpt, someone who calls could provide identification in credential, but might not be able to look up [?]
[2022-11-29T19:05:25.291Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Not guaranteed uniqueness. Depends on issuer, if assigned identifier & using consistently get but with addnl constraints

We have made [?] necessary.

It's back to, where add addnl normative profile guidance to make revocation safe
[2022-11-29T19:05:36.015Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: agree, esp with increased complexity you pointed out
[2022-11-29T19:05:44.971Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Have "id must be present" today
[2022-11-29T19:06:04.828Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Not currently reflected in trace API schema, will do
[2022-11-29T19:07:11.429Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Should treat respec doc as source of true; openapi, tests, others as secondary sources of truth

So, suggesting changes, extension to standards part of spec. If ID mandatory, say mandatory process for generating, things get simnpler?
[2022-11-29T19:07:31.715Z]	<nis>	q+
[2022-11-29T19:08:03.386Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Think specifying process for generating IDs not worth getting into. Issuer that generates, needs to be able to use that later

"I'm issuing VC here's ID I generated", issuer needs to be able to find VC they issued
[2022-11-29T19:08:27.754Z]	<nis>	ack orie
[2022-11-29T19:08:36.990Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	q+
[2022-11-29T19:08:52.724Z]	<nis>	ack nis
[2022-11-29T19:08:54.710Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Inference in there, assuming [?]. Issuer could just do url example.123 for every cred, would conform with norm. Unless want not legal, we do need to describe what needs to be
[2022-11-29T19:09:03.132Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	+1 orie
[2022-11-29T19:09:36.532Z]	<Orie>	regardless of the choice, we need a PR to flush out this section of the spec: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-vocab/#extensions-to-standard
[2022-11-29T19:10:31.441Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: What you're talking way into, issuing server decides on ID, VC ID, consequences?

1) takes away ability for issuing body, request to set that identifier. May have good reason to want to set it.

other, injecting data into other cred during issuance. Always worried when we inject stuff, we should refrain adding stuff inbetween we see cred pass back VC.

Those my two concerns, like simplicity
[2022-11-29T19:10:32.786Z]	<nis>	ack chris
[2022-11-29T19:11:11.635Z]	<Orie>	you could say it MUST be unique and it SHOULD be a urn:uuid:v4.
[2022-11-29T19:11:30.649Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: I agree with both. Responding to Orie, yes agree need specify instructions for that ID, misunderstood you. Yes specify needs unique.

Nis yes I agree don't inject anything in cred before signed, why puts ID in extra metadata that lives same level as credential
[2022-11-29T19:11:49.871Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: Sounds more like Manu's suggestion, we put it in options?
[2022-11-29T19:12:00.509Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Not quite
[2022-11-29T19:13:18.310Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Accomplishing same thing, moving client provided paramn from one object to another

Don't think much better than current defined behavior. think we can do better

If we've already said, this optional behavior is required, makes sense to exploit this value. Have general agreement.

Know it's there, know it's unique, why not use?
[2022-11-29T19:13:34.417Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: But it's there in VC, I think issue here is how it gets there
[2022-11-29T19:14:15.959Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: K was thinking more abt update endpt. If know it's there can use ID in update endpt. In creation, can throw 400 error in value or assign one, or override what client does - don't think we should do that
[2022-11-29T19:14:38.042Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: but then issue, a) removing option to do something need to do, b) injecting data into cred
[2022-11-29T19:15:13.415Z]	<nis>	ack paul
[2022-11-29T19:15:19.037Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: Already adding proof tho

Pulling thread further, client can set ID, have to, but won't be used by anything. API will assign new ID, what will be used in updates

That's other option?
[2022-11-29T19:15:38.955Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Paul: So need some ref to this thing to call this update? Pass whole object to update method?
[2022-11-29T19:15:53.539Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: But then would need to negotiate with everyone else
[2022-11-29T19:16:14.994Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Paul: My issue is not clear what [?]
[2022-11-29T19:16:45.036Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Orie: so clarify options in an issue, what choosing between, then polling to figure out what option has strength, then PR
[2022-11-29T19:16:53.240Z]	<nis>	q?
[2022-11-29T19:16:57.582Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Action: clarify options in interop #468 and initiate polling
[2022-11-29T19:17:55.865Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/469
[2022-11-29T19:18:02.813Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	nis: Can try to summarize some of this tomorrow

Any input? Moving on

Back on interop issues. Chris had recent, like 469, discussed last week
[2022-11-29T19:21:22.351Z]	<nis>	ack paul
[2022-11-29T19:21:34.117Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	[...]

Not going to die on this hill, but seems logical to include the same whether pass or fail
[2022-11-29T19:22:18.586Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Paul: Customer said "just want a black box", as soon as delivered just achieve fail, message that even for simple that verification message really useful
[2022-11-29T19:23:25.347Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	chris: Examples don't agree with spec rn

Think that's it. So list of objects, should be testable right?

Put in openapi schema that list of objects must be unique
[2022-11-29T19:23:41.515Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: Would be enum of verification types right?
[2022-11-29T19:23:45.353Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: yes
[2022-11-29T19:24:20.070Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Having all use cases would be very helpful
[2022-11-29T19:24:37.049Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: Chris, don't understand what you said abt oopenapi
[2022-11-29T19:25:11.678Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: Concerns abt writing test, so verifications array of objects with status good/bad, list of titles, optional description

Can we make array unique, I think we can
[2022-11-29T19:25:44.986Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: have decided to leave 5mins at end for volunteer, so wrap this up now

Volunteers for the minutes process?
[2022-11-29T19:25:49.052Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Chris: happy to
[2022-11-29T19:26:10.905Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	Nis: I'll agenda next wk as well

Thanks everyone
