[2020-12-15T16:59:36.142Z]	<cel>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:00:20.465Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:00:43.640Z]	<heathervescent>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:00:56.314Z]	<manu>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:00:59.318Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:01:34.609Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:01:57.334Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:02:08.612Z]	<JamesChartrand>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:02:25.980Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Dec/0080.html
[2020-12-15T17:03:35.706Z]	<Kim>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-12-15T17:03:46.096Z]	<Kim>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-12-15T17:03:58.550Z]	<Kim>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-12-15T17:04:16.412Z]	<Kim>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-12-15T17:04:50.711Z]	<Robbie.Jones@ForgeRock.com>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:04:56.596Z]	<rgrant>	preset+
[2020-12-15T17:05:03.124Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:05:11.315Z]	<rhiaro>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:05:19.191Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:05:52.156Z]	<manu>	scribe: manu
[2020-12-15T17:06:22.424Z]	<manu>	Topic: Introductions / Reintroductions
[2020-12-15T17:06:35.064Z]	<manu>	kimhd: Anyone new to the call that would like to introduce themselves?
[2020-12-15T17:06:47.244Z]	<manu>	No takers.
[2020-12-15T17:06:48.171Z]	<manu>	kimhd: Reintroductions, then.
[2020-12-15T17:07:48.287Z]	<manu>	kimhd: Dmitri, do you mind reintroducing yourself?
[2020-12-15T17:08:14.180Z]	<manu>	Dmitri: Hi everyone, Dmitri software Engineer w/ Digital Bazaar -- active in VC/DID/Confidential storage -- contributing to related Javascript libraries.
[2020-12-15T17:08:30.554Z]	<wayne>	q+ infrastructure task force, meeting time change in January
[2020-12-15T17:08:38.004Z]	<manu>	Topic: Announcements and Reminders
[2020-12-15T17:08:38.844Z]	<Kim>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2020-12-15T17:09:13.847Z]	<manu>	kimhd: This is the last meeting of the year
[2020-12-15T17:09:33.957Z]	<manu>	kimhd: Every Tuesday we have this weekly call... we have VC EDU task force -- meeting every Monday 8am PT --
[2020-12-15T17:09:40.585Z]	<manu>	kimhd: DID Resolution also on Monday weekly 1pm PT
[2020-12-15T17:09:51.812Z]	<manu>	kimhd: Confidential Storage, with DIF, Thursday 1-2pm PT
[2020-12-15T17:10:23.800Z]	<manu>	wayne: First is call for objections to infrastructure Task force -- work items dependent on group existing, npm package management, reduce burden on chairs, object/support on Github issue below.
[2020-12-15T17:10:57.685Z]	<manu>	wayne: Starting in January 5th -- first meeting of new year -- have a conflict -- decision is to see if there is interest in separate meeting time -- availability in general, few suggested slots, move it a day, etc.
[2020-12-15T17:11:04.847Z]	<manu>	wayne: feedback, respond to thread.
[2020-12-15T17:11:45.871Z]	<heathervescent>	I can go over the chair job description if interested
[2020-12-15T17:11:49.583Z]	<manu>	kimhd: We do have an upcoming Chair election... if you are interested, reach out to current chairs -- Heather has been working on Chair job description which gives you some idea on how the sausage making happens.
[2020-12-15T17:12:09.153Z]	<manu>	kimhd: Items that Heather and Wayne may want to go through... next.
[2020-12-15T17:12:33.086Z]	<manu>	kimhd: VC PRs under maintenance Charter... talked about this last week.
[2020-12-15T17:12:33.708Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-12-15T17:12:44.098Z]	<heathervescent>	q+
[2020-12-15T17:12:47.733Z]	<manu>	kimhd: it's not clear where this issue needs to live now.
[2020-12-15T17:12:59.717Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-12-15T17:13:02.627Z]	<rhiaro>	scribe: rhiaro
[2020-12-15T17:13:03.427Z]	<kimhd>	ack wayne
[2020-12-15T17:13:06.339Z]	<kimhd>	ack manu
[2020-12-15T17:13:09.428Z]	<rhiaro>	manu: it still needs to live in the ccg, there's no better place for it
[2020-12-15T17:13:12.619Z]	<rhiaro>	... we need to have a call
[2020-12-15T17:13:24.581Z]	<rhiaro>	... I don't feel like we're making good progress on the issue, there are too many unknown details
[2020-12-15T17:13:27.821Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2020-12-15T17:13:36.407Z]	<rhiaro>	... after tholidays we should convene a meeting between the leadership and communities and nail the process down so w3c staff is happy
[2020-12-15T17:13:50.159Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-12-15T17:13:52.162Z]	<manu>	manu: We need to have a meeting between Chairs, Editors of all of these communities to make progress.
[2020-12-15T17:13:55.944Z]	<kimhd>	ack heathervescent
[2020-12-15T17:14:52.159Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: Update - productive call w/ wayne last week - discussing issues -- main concern w/ scope - did a high level audit of all systems... based on audit -- current activities and desired for potential future things (VC PR maintenance stuff), next step is to wayne to identify items in audit to be in scope of infrastructure task force.
[2020-12-15T17:15:23.050Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: wayne and I are going to talk later this week about getting specific about scope of infrastructure TF and what that will cover to address concerns I raised. Part of conversation includes where this goes... 170 -- infrastructure or elsewhere.
[2020-12-15T17:15:43.619Z]	<manu>	kimhd: what about #3 -- outstanding objection for proposal?
[2020-12-15T17:15:51.633Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-12-15T17:16:32.490Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: W3C infrastructure has a strong objection model, which I think is a masculine bias in W3C infra, won't fight that in this group... will discuss in diversity and inclusion group at W3C... moving to positive work environment group...
[2020-12-15T17:16:52.798Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: I will address the note on #3 - I'll update that. We need to make sure that anything in this issue is accounted for.
[2020-12-15T17:16:53.541Z]	<rhiaro>	note that the inclusion and diversity group is not closing, the pwe is combining with it because there is a lot of joint membership, and both groups will be chartered into one
[2020-12-15T17:17:12.491Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: I'm not 100% behind on infrastructure task force still, working w/ Wayne to address all my concerns.
[2020-12-15T17:17:36.013Z]	<manu>	heathervescent: I am not full speed ahead on Infrastructure Task Force, I'm full speed ahead on addressing the concerns.
[2020-12-15T17:18:07.221Z]	<manu>	kimhd: This one is in proposed status for a while -- after you do that, we have one week for objections -- if you can do that as soon as possible, then we could move forward with it.
[2020-12-15T17:18:51.528Z]	<manu>	kimhd: npm repository ... is it a  part of Infrastrcuture Task Force?
[2020-12-15T17:19:03.607Z]	<manu>	wayne: if Infrastructure Task Force is created, it will deal w/ npm governance.
[2020-12-15T17:19:29.026Z]	<manu>	kimhd: We need to clarify whether or not this is in scope. Calling out expectations might be something we need to do... task force might take that on.
[2020-12-15T17:19:46.013Z]	<manu>	wayne: Test suites, reference data, those are initial low risk, low stakes that we'd like to see there, instead of stuff that's in a production build chain.
[2020-12-15T17:19:52.508Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-12-15T17:19:55.789Z]	<manu>	kimhd: Happy for this, moving things forward.
[2020-12-15T17:20:09.504Z]	<manu>	kimhd: Moving on to the highlight.
[2020-12-15T17:20:15.553Z]	<manu>	Topic: Me2B Alliance
[2020-12-15T17:20:29.029Z]	<manu>	kimhd: Over to Lisa...
[2020-12-15T17:21:04.275Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Thank you for listening in today -- want to focus on Me2B alliance and the work that this group is doing.
[2020-12-15T17:21:28.031Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Key thing we've learned, we don't have right vocabulary to talk about relationships in digital world... sharing about proposed language and terminology that we've come up with.
[2020-12-15T17:22:22.980Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: One of the things I wanted to do is information share with this group... slide 2 - note to self, mission of group is important
[2020-12-15T17:22:41.084Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Agenda slide - Who are we, what do we do -- lifecycle, credentials, deals.
[2020-12-15T17:22:59.026Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Wrap up with Me2B and credentials and a couple of questions -- things that you might be able to clarify for me.
[2020-12-15T17:23:36.565Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Our Ethos slide - respectful technologies are better for both Me-s and B-s. We are more Me focused because of the current power dynamics in industry.
[2020-12-15T17:23:56.613Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Our Mission slide - Current working version of mission.
[2020-12-15T17:24:41.958Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Background in mobile telecom standards - sometimes markets are created through standards... what if we created a different kind of standard that's not technical, but has ethical/behavioral considerations... create standard, create certification, drive demand, create market choices... that is idealized.
[2020-12-15T17:24:46.752Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: It's not easy
[2020-12-15T17:25:20.914Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: That is the founding vision -- we used to describe ourselves as good housekeeping... that's not what we're about.. . more like independent crash testing institute... instead of testing cars, we're looking for potential harms and risks.
[2020-12-15T17:25:36.009Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Digital Harms dictionary - continuing to build it out... modify over time... focus on harms.
[2020-12-15T17:25:46.300Z]	<manu>	Independent crash testing institute slide
[2020-12-15T17:25:53.961Z]	<manu>	Ethical north star slide
[2020-12-15T17:26:41.026Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: We spent a good time contemplating what our ethical north star -- come up with universal ethic, perhaps a fools errand... but do we want to mirror behaviros of healthy human relationships?
[2020-12-15T17:26:54.248Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: We've taken aspects of healthy human relationships and adapted them...
[2020-12-15T17:26:58.965Z]	<manu>	Me2B Rules of Engagement slide
[2020-12-15T17:27:22.109Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: These are tests in our testing rubric... not going to read through them, but do want to call out a couple of things... haven't said data or privacy yet, deliberate... those words are too narrow.
[2020-12-15T17:27:37.146Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: What you'll see here are respective boundaries... privacy is one such boundary -- respectful defaults
[2020-12-15T17:27:43.526Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: precursor to relationship state...
[2020-12-15T17:27:44.290Z]	<agropper>	q+ when Lisa is done to discuss Separation of Concerns between Controllers and Processors and between Rulemakers and Certifiers
[2020-12-15T17:28:02.319Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: really crucial for technology -- this rule, is in absence of stated preferences, default to certain behavior.
[2020-12-15T17:28:17.039Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: This comes out of social norms... when we meet someone for first time, we withhold things.
[2020-12-15T17:28:44.601Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Apply these rules to products/services -- products/services are not obeying rule of respectful defaults.
[2020-12-15T17:28:56.877Z]	<manu>	Me-Manifesto slide
[2020-12-15T17:29:14.842Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: There is the Me-Manifesto... still wordsmithing it -- pretty good... We assert our rights, I'm in charge, We play nice.
[2020-12-15T17:29:39.660Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: We're doing early certification -- took a long time to build out testing rubric -- table stakes testing criteria... doing early certification with friendlies since mid-year.
[2020-12-15T17:29:52.583Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Has been hugely illuminating... proper commercial launch next year.
[2020-12-15T17:30:03.644Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: 3 key principles... assert rights, in charge, play nice.
[2020-12-15T17:30:19.495Z]	<agropper>	Here are two links (in my tweet) relevant to governance of controller-processor interoperability https://twitter.com/agropper/status/1338832808463233025
[2020-12-15T17:30:29.627Z]	<Kim>	q+ to ask for more details about testing
[2020-12-15T17:30:47.473Z]	<manu>	It's Really "We" slide
[2020-12-15T17:31:22.948Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Ethos is not individualistic, recognizes interdependence, healthy societies need respectful relationships... don't expect we'll do sustainability testing on tech, but others will... important to consider for well being.
[2020-12-15T17:32:13.558Z]	<manu>	Me2B Relationship in digital world slide
[2020-12-15T17:32:41.036Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Deliberate relationships - multiple touchpoints... interaction w/ business (legal)... and then connected products and services.
[2020-12-15T17:33:35.138Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Connected products and services, brand ambassadors -- connected, available, smart -- humanesque part to connected products and services... building up valance of love/hate/whatever -- coloring our idea about brand and business itself... squirrel-y today
[2020-12-15T17:33:44.749Z]	<kimhd>	rhiaro found this me2b url: https://me2ba.org/ (the other one wasn't loading)
[2020-12-15T17:33:53.061Z]	<manu>	Me2B Relationship Layers slide
[2020-12-15T17:34:10.512Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Unbox iPhone... create Legal relationship w/ Apple.
[2020-12-15T17:34:31.874Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Then experiential Relationship w/ iPhone... (this is all experimental language, still working through it)
[2020-12-15T17:34:50.845Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: At this point, there is a valance... feeling about the product.
[2020-12-15T17:35:11.450Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: but what's also happening... Hidden Affiliates... 3rd party integrations... these entities are unknown
[2020-12-15T17:35:27.939Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Let's say she downloads Chrome browser... then legal relationship created w/ Google.
[2020-12-15T17:35:51.564Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: starts to use browser... experiential relationship w/ Chrome browser... phone is Me2T - technology enabler
[2020-12-15T17:35:57.498Z]	<agropper>	Here's the new Apple Privacy App Store privacy labeling: https://developer.apple.com/app-store/app-privacy-details/
[2020-12-15T17:36:13.504Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: interacting w/ brand ambassador - Google... hidden affiliates grow... even more now - Googles and Apples
[2020-12-15T17:36:22.984Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Using browser, navigate to Instagram.
[2020-12-15T17:36:34.972Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Creates legal relationship with... who? Who's the business...
[2020-12-15T17:36:42.589Z]	<manu>	Instagram login site slide
[2020-12-15T17:37:49.456Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Who's the business? It's not Instagram... it's Facebook... lines are blurry on these relationships, it's confusing... acknowledge that it's a bit of a contrived example. Once again, subjected to hidden affiliates stack... native device monitoring, chrome browser monitoring, keeps stacking up... relationships... test clarify scope of testing, we needed some language to describe landscape of this.
[2020-12-15T17:38:08.114Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Saying Me2B covers ALL of layered relationships and touchpoints, because all touchpoints need to be respectful.
[2020-12-15T17:38:22.893Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Moving on into relationship lifecycle... Me2B Relationship lifecycle model...
[2020-12-15T17:38:34.016Z]	<agropper>	Apple adopted the first 3 of my (PPR) label suggestion to them in 2018. https://ssrn.com/abstract=3439701 They did not adopt the last two :-)
[2020-12-15T17:38:36.799Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Taken from human relationship model, adapting it for use for Me2B
[2020-12-15T17:38:58.630Z]	<manu>	Me2B Relationship Lifecycle Model slide
[2020-12-15T17:39:32.463Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Skipping over physical world, focusing more on digital world -- all can understand processes and understandings of these stages... how we get into state of being very committed ... use service on regular basis.
[2020-12-15T17:39:50.847Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: No relationship is ever clean, no model is every perfect... we realize that... apply social norms to digital commitments.
[2020-12-15T17:40:31.529Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: What this really looks like is an EKG, not a mountain... tool for understanding how we can get more specific in our testing/scoping... test behavior of technology... within digital Me2B Commitments, what are those?
[2020-12-15T17:40:58.463Z]	<manu>	Spectrum of Me2B Commitments
[2020-12-15T17:40:59.747Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: There are a spectrum of specific transactions and agreements that we make in the digital world... this can be understood as states... not perfectly states
[2020-12-15T17:41:30.800Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: When we do our testing, for example... expectations of individuals... very first open of app/website, we're measuring that behavior to see what's going on... nothing sneaky going on - no commitment commitment.
[2020-12-15T17:41:35.320Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: This is the starting point
[2020-12-15T17:41:52.167Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Then cookie consent... location consent... that might appear in different way
[2020-12-15T17:42:02.818Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: promotional communication commitment... loyalty program commitment...
[2020-12-15T17:42:18.665Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: One-off Transaction... do one thing, then go on our way.
[2020-12-15T17:42:43.310Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Me2B "Marriage" -- a lot of people don't like this phrase, working phrase, effective as a metaphor... we'll see if it stands up.
[2020-12-15T17:43:19.553Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: We are testing data minimization in these things... individual has agency to enroll/unenroll of all these commitments, no strings attached in commitments. Digital Me2B marriage, when individual establishes an account.
[2020-12-15T17:43:27.417Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: "I like it, so I create an account"
[2020-12-15T17:43:36.254Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: That is the marriage... account creation.
[2020-12-15T17:44:02.489Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: the hallmark of this is signaling to the business that you want to be remembered, recognized, responded to (from functional identity)
[2020-12-15T17:44:22.898Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: At end of it, I delete my account... divorce -- I am forgotten... account deletion.
[2020-12-15T17:44:34.970Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Idealized mapping of two main states of being in a marriage and not being in a marriage.
[2020-12-15T17:45:15.321Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: When I'm logged in, I'm in the marriage... when I'm not logged in, there is no Me2B marriage... have reasonable expectation to be anonymous... from human perspective... how your life is when you window shop in real world.
[2020-12-15T17:45:39.109Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: If you walk into store for first time and someone called you by name, that would be creepy... would violate the expectation of anonymity.
[2020-12-15T17:45:51.668Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: When you are not logged in, there is an expectation of anonymity.
[2020-12-15T17:46:33.221Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Other commitments that we make... mapped on arc, sign up for promotional communication... the accepting cookies, describing a browser or website... we are testing websites and apps... when you're navigating through websites, this accepting cookies comes early, that is a commitment.
[2020-12-15T17:46:40.354Z]	<manu>	"But it's complicated" slide.
[2020-12-15T17:47:16.216Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: There is this consented pseudonymous state... you are temporarily remembered, recognized, responded to... but you're not "identified"
[2020-12-15T17:48:07.120Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: You actually /are/ identified, want to talk more about that... at end... but there is a huge data channel here... didn't know this existed until recently... langauage of the data layer, this noxious data flow that's happening under radar of individual.
[2020-12-15T17:48:36.279Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: our idealized version of this doesn't point out that today this happens overtly... the invisible layer.
[2020-12-15T17:48:45.006Z]	<manu>	Me2B Deal slide
[2020-12-15T17:49:14.583Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: For every one of these commitments, site wants to use location, these are the cookies, will you let us... for each of those commitments, there is a deal... what am I going to give, what am I going to get?
[2020-12-15T17:49:56.899Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: There is inherent fair value given for fair value taken... looking for flagrant information collection... to determine if it's a fair exchange... there is a personal quid pro quo calculus.
[2020-12-15T17:49:59.480Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-12-15T17:50:11.965Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Am I comfortable exchanging this information, is it a fair exchange?
[2020-12-15T17:50:18.657Z]	<manu>	Credentials and Me2B
[2020-12-15T17:50:34.706Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Going back to mission of credentials... synergies -- has to do w/ idea of "I'm in charge".
[2020-12-15T17:50:56.019Z]	<rhiaro>	mostly the answer is no it isn't a fair exchange but I have no other options here D:
[2020-12-15T17:51:00.089Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: There is a design fiction ... I'm in charge -- relationship lifecycle model slide.
[2020-12-15T17:51:27.019Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Also, we care about bringing your own privacy terms, permissions... working on IEEE personal privacy terms.
[2020-12-15T17:51:36.941Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: This is where most synergy lives.
[2020-12-15T17:51:39.311Z]	<manu>	Questions slide
[2020-12-15T17:52:09.042Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Interested in credentials in Me2B marriage... Credentials vs. Identifiers -- first and 3rd parties, throughout relationship... pseudonymous cookie consent state.
[2020-12-15T17:53:01.705Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Internal identifiers are used on ongoing data collection/correlation/collection... service needs to be able to construct those personal responses... 3rd party, universal cross-platform IDs, real problem, testing is exposing these things... fundamentals to adtech and martech.
[2020-12-15T17:53:30.574Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Wonder how much you've thought about this stuff -- not up to date on these discussions... wanted to leave w/ this question about this stuff... how does it fit into user controlled credentials. That's what I had.
[2020-12-15T17:53:45.503Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-12-15T17:53:48.667Z]	<manu>	q+ to provide feedback on identifiers vs. credentials
[2020-12-15T17:53:52.954Z]	<kimhd>	ack agropper
[2020-12-15T17:53:57.182Z]	<kimhd>	q-
[2020-12-15T17:53:57.322Z]	<manu>	kimhd: Great, thank you -- questions?
[2020-12-15T17:54:01.957Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-12-15T17:54:09.416Z]	<kimhd>	ack Kim
[2020-12-15T17:54:46.041Z]	<manu>	agropper: Spend half of my time in standards and other half in advocacy/governance -- in context of this group -- separation of concerns, have power to specify in term of interop, teaches us that controllers should be separate from processors, and regulators should be separate from certifiers.
[2020-12-15T17:54:47.531Z]	<manu>	q-
[2020-12-15T17:55:09.287Z]	<manu>	agropper: One of the ways to think about this -- controller in GDPR sense of delegate
[2020-12-15T17:55:09.993Z]	<manu>	q+
[2020-12-15T17:55:30.321Z]	<manu>	agropper: service provider only gets authorizations... that's something that regulators/certifiers can build on.
[2020-12-15T17:55:41.350Z]	<Kim>	ack manu
[2020-12-15T17:55:53.895Z]	<rhiaro>	manu: thanks Lisa, this is all really fantastic stuff, very much aligned with the kind of tings that this group is concerned with and thinking deeply about
[2020-12-15T17:56:07.336Z]	<rhiaro>	... this is mostly an urge for you to engage more with the community
[2020-12-15T17:56:13.814Z]	<rhiaro>	... you ask some really great questions and we can't answer them in this time
[2020-12-15T17:56:17.619Z]	<rhiaro>	... but we are grappling with those questions
[2020-12-15T17:56:25.398Z]	<rhiaro>	... a lot of the slide deck is very aligned with current thinking in the group
[2020-12-15T17:56:31.190Z]	<rhiaro>	... but there's no-one that is really focussed on it
[2020-12-15T17:56:47.619Z]	<rhiaro>	... we tend to focus too much on the tech side and not enough on the certification, testing, understanding what these relationships are and creating languages to express it in the market
[2020-12-15T17:56:57.686Z]	<rhiaro>	... the question you're asking about identity and identifiers vs credentials, there are a lot of different angles on that
[2020-12-15T17:57:09.071Z]	<rhiaro>	... what we have tried to do as adrian mentioned is separate these things to the biggest degree possible so we can understand each one
[2020-12-15T17:57:15.878Z]	<rhiaro>	... at greater depth and then compose them together in appropriate ways
[2020-12-15T17:57:25.708Z]	<rhiaro>	... ripping the thing apart into its atomic components and building new molecules that are fit for purpose
[2020-12-15T17:57:35.227Z]	<rhiaro>	... the language that you are using and have generated can really help this community
[2020-12-15T17:57:54.287Z]	<rhiaro>	... I wouldn't want to see you present and then go off somewhere else. A plea to figure out some way to get the work you presented more directly integrated with the work we ar edoing, it can do a lot of good in this group
[2020-12-15T17:58:43.683Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Great, thank you, will engage -- we are open for business, membership is open... in a soft launch, platform has some bugs, but are working through those... if you'd like to join, please join and follow along certification WG.
[2020-12-15T17:59:01.402Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Know some people that are in call... would love to figure out ways to keep this connection fresh and alive.
[2020-12-15T17:59:33.648Z]	<manu>	kimhd: Thank you, agreed - there are increasing opportunities as well -- DHS wallet design challenge, more product focused... user interaction flow, testing and certification, both process and specifics would be interested in exploring in context of wallets.
[2020-12-15T17:59:52.211Z]	<manu>	kimhd: Thank you again Lisa for the great discussion and topics that it brings up, looking forward to continuing to collaborate.
[2020-12-15T18:00:00.188Z]	<manu>	Lisa_L: Thank you looking forward to collaborating further.
