[2024-06-11T15:56:02.881Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2024-06-11T15:56:29.532Z]	<Simone_Onofri>	present+
[2024-06-11T15:57:42.332Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2024-06-11T15:58:22.806Z]	<Rashmi_Siravara>	present+
[2024-06-11T15:59:14.960Z]	<Hiroyuki_Sano,_Japan>	present+
[2024-06-11T15:59:44.788Z]	<Marianne_Díaz_Hernández>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:00:17.205Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:00:38.497Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:00:39.867Z]	<Wes-Smith>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:00:46.225Z]	<Jeff_O_/_HumanOS>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:00:48.402Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:01:03.334Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:02:06.908Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:02:08.748Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:02:15.400Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-06-11T16:02:15.401Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2024-06-11T16:02:23.024Z]	<Will_Abramson>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:02:27.347Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: We're good to go.
[2024-06-11T16:02:33.281Z]	<Nick_Doty>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:02:36.577Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: All right thank you welcome everybody um I'm really excited to have Marianne Diaz Hernandez here today uh she has been um.
[2024-06-11T16:02:39.163Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: I I'm gonna I'm gonna.
[2024-06-11T16:03:02.607Z]	<Joey_STANFORD>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:03:05.109Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: A human rights and Technology researcher uh which I just I loved that idea of um really taking all the technology and the things we talk about in these meetings so often and really turning it into um practical things that are are helping people on the front lines in many different ways um and I'm really excited for her to share her digital identity toolkit with us in just a few minutes.
[2024-06-11T16:03:11.066Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Um but let me first kind of run through our housekeeping uh notes and then we'll get started.
[2024-06-11T16:03:42.698Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Uh 1 is um I'm so happy to be a part of this community that is so inclusive and respectful of other people's ideas and uh think thinking and comments um and so we just want to make sure that we bring that to the 4 4 front of every single 1 of our meetings um if you want to learn more about um the w3c and how they view uh the the code of ethics and professional conduct um it is in our agenda the link to it is in the agenda and invite you to check it out.
[2024-06-11T16:04:23.031Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:04:23.145Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Uh we invite everyone to participate that's another reason I love this community is that it is so welcoming we are over 550 people uh who are members of this community and we welcome them all and anyone can participate in these Community calls however anyone who wants to um provide substantive contributions should be a member of the ccg and you can do that very easily by going to W3 uh.org and uh and joining it is free to join and then um completing that contributor license and the links to that is also in in our agenda.
[2024-06-11T16:04:46.088Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: A record of these calls through minutes and recording uh of a transcript to make sure that we uh hold on to this information uh going forward so that uh we can go back and and look at that archive and also to really make sure that everyone has access to the wonderful things that we are discussing.
[2024-06-11T16:05:09.089Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Invite you to participate um by using uh Q Plus in the chat um I will take the role of moderator and facilitator today and kind of make sure that our Q is uh is running smoothly and that everyone gets a chance to contribute and and talk as we're as we responding to the information that Marianne provides in just a little bit.
[2024-06-11T16:05:16.560Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Uh okay so um now I am to the part of today where I invite folks who are.
[2024-06-11T16:05:30.589Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: To the community or are uh returning after being away for a bit or just want to um say hi to uh put themselves on the Queue and introduce themselves or reintroduce themselves.
[2024-06-11T16:05:34.517Z]	<Wes-Smith>	q+
[2024-06-11T16:05:41.775Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Glad to have you.
[2024-06-11T16:05:49.355Z]	<Transcriber>	Wes-Smith: Hi everyone my name is Wes I'm a software engineer at digital Bazaar and I'm looking forward to working with you all.
[2024-06-11T16:05:51.861Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	q?
[2024-06-11T16:05:58.513Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Anyone else like to introduce themselves.
[2024-06-11T16:06:05.746Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q- wes
[2024-06-11T16:06:10.763Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: All right how about announcements and reminders does anyone have any information they want to share with the.
[2024-06-11T16:06:14.766Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Hey Kimberly um.
[2024-06-11T16:06:28.336Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: 1 announcement uh I think we announced the verifiable barcodes uh specification that we've been incubating sorry that we've just been working on um uh for a while.
[2024-06-11T16:06:30.829Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://digitalbazaar.github.io/vc-barcodes/
[2024-06-11T16:07:08.124Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/248
[2024-06-11T16:07:13.534Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Last week I'll put a link into uh that specification here um this is work that uh is being deployed uh for the State of California uh and uh is expected to be deployed for uh the US citizenship and Immigration Services permanent resident card employment authorization document stuff like that um we have uh proposed it as a work item uh for the credentials community group I'll put in a link to that here uh there's been some discussion uh on the mailing list um and then on top of that uh we've got another.
[2024-06-11T16:07:59.452Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Uh organization that would like to support uh from an editorial uh role uh they're not organization's name is Credence ID um uh in uh they I think they've already joined or will be joining the the credentials community group soon they're also 1 of the um uh performers that have gotten a um a DHS contract to work on verifiable credential technology uh in in digital wallets and verifiers and stuff like that um so I uh asked that uh some of you look at the work if you're interested in it uh happy to answer any questions on the mailing list um and that's that thanks.
[2024-06-11T16:07:59.794Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great thank you.
[2024-06-11T16:08:05.080Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Anyone else with an announcement reminder.
[2024-06-11T16:08:05.724Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:08:05.793Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q+
[2024-06-11T16:08:17.895Z]	<PL/T3>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:08:48.134Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Yeah I just want to add that uh we uh invited West to talk about verifiable credentials barcode on August 6th and then the quick preview of what's coming so next week uh we got Lucy and gal to talk about the California DMV MPL hackathon so.
[2024-06-11T16:08:50.710Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: I think they're going to hold it in the.
[2024-06-11T16:08:56.202Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: September or October uh this year obviously so they're going to talk about that.
[2024-06-11T16:08:56.468Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang:  and then.
[2024-06-11T16:09:02.690Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: Week after we're going to have Greg coming back again to talk about Anonymous holder binding and pseudonym.
[2024-06-11T16:09:19.804Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: The week after we're going to have the author of The Mit mro nity paper uh neuron to talk about her work there so that's uh upcoming uh agenda uh pretty excited about actually all these topics so thanks.
[2024-06-11T16:09:22.459Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Sounds great thanks Harrison.
[2024-06-11T16:09:26.632Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	q-
[2024-06-11T16:09:35.415Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: All right uh will would you like to talk about work items.
[2024-06-11T16:09:47.329Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Work Items
[2024-06-11T16:11:28.495Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Thanks will Manu you had a comment.
[2024-06-11T16:11:42.570Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah just on the confidence method um there there are a number of us that want to see that move forward uh and haven't been doing that because our whole Focus right now or a lot of our Focus right now is in getting the verifiable credentials 20.
[2024-06-11T16:12:24.120Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Ification done um and so I think the plan there is the verifiable credentials working group is going to reserve the confidence method extension point and they're going to expect once they finish their work for some of those extensions specs that were reserved to then be taken up so those include like confidence method um and render method at a at a minimum so I just want to Signal like we are very interested in getting confidence method done and and we just haven't been able to coordinate that activity because everyone's been so busy with the 20th that's it.
[2024-06-11T16:12:32.084Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Thank you and 1 of the reasons that we are um that we've we've asked will to sort of collect this information and like really.
[2024-06-11T16:13:19.742Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: A moment in each meeting where we uh bring it to the to the group is because we know there are folks out there that want want to contribute and want to be um working on these projects more more specifically but you need an Avenue in um and and so that's 1 of the reasons we're bringing them here is because you know that old expression many hands make light work uh we we know that there are lots of folks who have been deep in this knowledge and and working for a long time but we want to encourage um other folks to get involved in the work so hopefully as you hear us each week start to talk about these um work items you'll become um more and more interested in uh in getting involved so uh Joe.
[2024-06-11T16:13:25.756Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Did you have a question comment.
[2024-06-11T16:13:45.459Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yes I was double muted um I just want a plus 1 on that confidence method we are very interested in supporting it and we know of at least 1 other and maybe it's going to be a co-lead with us on that Speck but um everything manager said is also true we've all been distracted with the the uh bcdm work so I expect that to re-emerge as active in the next month or 2.
[2024-06-11T16:14:13.300Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great thank you will for for spearheading this.
[2024-06-11T16:14:27.311Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: All right well that brings us to our main agenda so um I'm going to go ahead and turn uh the mic over to Marianne and let her introduce herself and talk about her work uh and then we will have a discussion.
[2024-06-11T16:14:30.634Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	+1 to Will for spearheading -- really important for us to work on this stuff and convey what's being worked on.
[2024-06-11T16:14:48.971Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: #WhyID Digital Identity Toolkit
[2024-06-11T16:15:13.959Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:18:51.020Z]	<PL/T3>	Lost the video and audio at my end
[2024-06-11T16:18:55.347Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Did we lose Marianne.
[2024-06-11T16:19:00.318Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Yes it appears to fill okay.
[2024-06-11T16:19:15.288Z]	<Transcriber>	Harrison_Tang: I think we lost it right.
[2024-06-11T16:19:19.858Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Yes I'm emailing her to make sure she knows on on her end.
[2024-06-11T16:19:21.084Z]	<Przemek_Praszczalek>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:19:21.297Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	yep, no audio from Marianne.
[2024-06-11T16:19:33.627Z]	<Marianne_Díaz_Hernández>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:19:41.337Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: She's okay good.
[2024-06-11T16:19:43.336Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Yes we can hear you.
[2024-06-11T16:25:59.937Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	those look fabulous!
[2024-06-11T16:27:41.278Z]	<PL/T3>	Great point - biometrics are the problem and the harm they can make.
[2024-06-11T16:28:14.068Z]	<PL/T3>	Agh biometrics are NOT the problem their harm in misuse is the problem
[2024-06-11T16:28:53.137Z]	<Simone_Onofri>	PL/T3: https://www.dw.com/en/german-defense-minister-von-der-leyens-fingerprint-copied-by-chaos-computer-club/a-18154832
[2024-06-11T16:30:07.845Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:30:09.724Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:30:15.673Z]	<Joey_STANFORD>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:30:16.281Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-06-11T16:30:16.282Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: weekly
[2024-06-11T16:30:26.154Z]	<PL/T3>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:30:26.269Z]	<Will_Abramson>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:30:33.233Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:30:36.617Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:30:37.539Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:30:37.842Z]	<Jeff_O_/_HumanOS>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:30:51.404Z]	<Hiroyuki_Sano,_Japan>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:30:54.776Z]	<Nick_Doty>	(don't see anything on screen)
[2024-06-11T16:31:01.481Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:31:03.775Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:31:07.215Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:31:12.080Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	@Nick - you may need to reload the tab
[2024-06-11T16:31:20.824Z]	<Nick_Doty>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:32:22.980Z]	<Nick_Doty>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:33:00.034Z]	<Rashmi_Siravara>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:33:03.173Z]	<Alex_H>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:33:54.017Z]	<Przemek_Praszczalek>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:35:21.696Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great this is gorgeous and so interesting and engaging um Manu.
[2024-06-11T16:35:34.741Z]	<Jeff_O_/_HumanOS>	Very Nice Approach Indeed
[2024-06-11T16:36:22.140Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah thanks um Kimberly uh Marion this is wonderful uh amazing stuff um uh a number of us I don't know how much you know about this this community but you know we started probably back in 2014 uh and a number of us met at the ID 2020 initiative at the United Nations uh to try and provide uh individuals with um identity uh of the 2.4 billion people on the planet that that don't have you know an identity but do it in a privacy preserving human rights um respecting way so everything that you have said today I think very positively and strongly resonates with many of us in this community um most recently you asked about collaboration um most recently and I think Nick Nick Dodie from Center for democracy and Tech.
[2024-06-11T16:36:22.889Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  technology is.
[2024-06-11T16:36:52.777Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Simone uh is here from w3c their number of us that are trying to work on um a document that covers just about everything that you said today like we we need a harms model right um so so you know we create technical standards and uh we do work with technology but we're very conscious of what that means for human rights in uh the the potential for abuse.
[2024-06-11T16:37:01.138Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	All that stuff we just saw — https://www.accessnow.org/campaign/whyid/
[2024-06-11T16:37:37.387Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: To run ahead and make sure that we have documented harms models documented threats models uh we know you know how the technology you know should fit into that infrastructure and we know what technologies are um we shouldn't build because of the harms that they they might create or when we do build Technologies we know what to optimize for so everything that you I'm looking through this deck now everything that you have talked in here feels like something that we need to uh put in uh to uh the harms model um security model uh that we're authoring at at the worldwide Web Consortium um.
[2024-06-11T16:38:08.046Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So all that to say you're you know I there's a lot of room to collaborate here um and I hope I see Simone has put himself on the Queue I hope nick uh you can speak to some of the work that you've been doing uh in the space as well so so anyway we absolutely want to work with you on G taking some of these Concepts that you have already fleshed out really well in pulling them into the the standards process at the worldwide Web Consortium that's it.
[2024-06-11T16:38:10.676Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: That's great thank you Manu Simone.
[2024-06-11T16:38:21.154Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: You may be muted.
[2024-06-11T16:38:22.262Z]	<Nick_Doty>	definitely of interest! I think we should thoroughly review to make sure the threat models and considerations cover everything in the WhyID toolkit
[2024-06-11T16:38:32.190Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: We can't hear you if you're if you're talking.
[2024-06-11T16:38:33.873Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	yes, definitely ^
[2024-06-11T16:38:36.839Z]	<Simone_Onofri>	checking headphones
[2024-06-11T16:38:38.853Z]	<Nick_Doty>	(feeding the baby and putting him down for a nap, so won't be able to chat right now)
[2024-06-11T16:38:54.259Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	no problem ^ I'll try to link to harms document... security model
[2024-06-11T16:39:06.236Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: And I'm I don't know if you all are reading the chat but Simone is checking his headphones and Nick is feeding the baby and putting him down for a nap which I like so jealous because I would like to I would like to do that um but this is um very exciting work I don't know Marianne after listening to Manu did you have do you have some thoughts on.
[2024-06-11T16:39:06.846Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  on Waze.
[2024-06-11T16:39:47.131Z]	<Simone_Onofri>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:40:20.462Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great great simony I think you're back.
[2024-06-11T16:40:24.446Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Yes we can hear you great.
[2024-06-11T16:41:27.286Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Threat Modeling for Decentralized Identities: https://github.com/WICG/digital-credentials/issues/115
[2024-06-11T16:41:39.744Z]	<Joey_STANFORD>	present+
[2024-06-11T16:41:45.286Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Joint work on rights-respecting digital credentials: https://github.com/w3c/strategy/issues/458
[2024-06-11T16:42:06.783Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Verifiable Credentials Overview: https://w3c.github.io/vc-overview/
[2024-06-11T16:42:31.775Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great thank you.
[2024-06-11T16:42:39.355Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	ack simone
[2024-06-11T16:42:46.880Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Marion I I am wondering you know when you sit down with a group to do sort of to to to work with the deck like how how long do you like could you talk a little bit about what that what that session looks like.
[2024-06-11T16:43:08.798Z]	<Simone_Onofri>	Threat Model https://github.com/WICG/digital-credentials/issues/115
[2024-06-11T16:47:00.318Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great thank you I'm I'm already thinking of of lots of different.
[2024-06-11T16:47:19.417Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Ways in places that that that this would be just such a great activity um for folks to just get them thinking and I think it's so important that the cards are simple and don't have a lot of of the content that you have in the you know saved on them because this has to be.
[2024-06-11T16:47:34.008Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: This has to be delivered to folks uh in layers it it is too too complex to sort of give it to everyone all at once and giving them just enough content um I think is a great is a great strategy uh Manu you're on the queue.
[2024-06-11T16:47:36.380Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah thanks Kimberly um.
[2024-06-11T16:47:39.312Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So Marian I.
[2024-06-11T16:48:06.408Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Looking I'm looking at this slight slightly differently so I think it's great the way that you um you know engage communities and uh convey um the information in the way that you do it it is vital to be able to convey this to people that are not you know down in the in the technology depths um that said I think the way um.
[2024-06-11T16:48:58.981Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That this stuff would be most helpful to those of us writing technical standards so so 1 1 other piece of background that you might not have is that a number of us are software developers and software vendors and we sell these uh in in the best of cases uh privacy respecting um uh you know harms avoiding um uh human rights respecting systems these identity systems to like state governments National governments and things of that nature so not only are we involved in kind of creating the standards but some of us um have software companies where we sell this technology um into you know organizations um and and so you know we're very well-versed in kind of the concerns here but always struggle.
[2024-06-11T16:49:39.115Z]	<Marianne_Díaz_Hernández>	feel free to cutting and pasting xD
[2024-06-11T16:49:59.560Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Uh to convey the information in a straightforward manner to those that need to read it so I'm I'm looking specifically at the deck the digital ID tool kit and I'm specifically looking at the harms cards and the mitigations cards in the language that you have in there uh could be literally cut and pasted into the uh specifications that we're talking about especially the harms model and the and the security model stuff so the question to you is you know would you be averse to that in in any way I know you know we all have to kind of talk about it and come to consensus about the the language but you know having read through the language and being involved in this for for you know um more than a decade now it feels like a direct mapping into kind of what we need so you have you have language that has been written that we still need to write in it may be the best way to start there is to take exactly what you have.
[2024-06-11T16:50:00.315Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Move it in.
[2024-06-11T16:50:11.485Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Kind of some of these Global standards documents I don't know if you see any concern or danger um in doing that what are what are your thoughts there.
[2024-06-11T16:51:15.089Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great managers you have more.
[2024-06-11T16:52:14.683Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Excellent yeah I'm sorry I am I am going to be quite after this I know I'm monopolizing the the cube but this is super important work and and stuff that we've need been needing to do for a while now and so like this is a great opportunity uh Marion that's that fantastic that that's great um the the last question I have is how much I know it's always really difficult to find time to be involved in all the things that you need to be involved in but would you be able to be involved or somebody from your team be able to be involved uh to make sure that when we integrate this stuff that it continues to be aligned with what access now in the Y program uh would like to see me meaning that there's a way for us to invite you in as an invited expert to the global standard setting and you know um stuff and um uh and I think that would probably be the best path to ensure that you know when we translate this when when we pull it in uh there's a consensus process where everyone's kind of got to agree on the language.
[2024-06-11T16:52:15.450Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  things change.
[2024-06-11T16:52:41.272Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That that that kind of cycle we want to make sure that you have in your team have input into that process um to either approve or object um um on on the on any changes we might make do you have do you how much how much would you be able to participate in some capacity maybe an hour a month at most to to help us do that.
[2024-06-11T16:53:03.130Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Excellent thank you we'll we'll definitely be in touch touch over email thank.
[2024-06-11T16:53:11.053Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great this is yeah very exciting does anyone else have questions for Marianne.
[2024-06-11T16:53:33.056Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Marianne I was wondering a little bit about um the signatories and and I was looking at that on your your website what is your what are what are your goals um for for signatories and and communicating this.
[2024-06-11T16:53:35.491Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Even more broadly.
[2024-06-11T16:55:30.217Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Yes definitely a lot.
[2024-06-11T16:55:51.986Z]	<PL/T3>	:+1:
[2024-06-11T16:55:58.411Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	Thank you!
[2024-06-11T16:56:03.892Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Well thank you so much for for coming today this was really exciting and and the the toolkit is is incredible um and I'm certainly looking forward to being a part of a session at some point in the future where I get to uh to to Think Through think through it all with with all of you um so I hope that uh you all have a great week we look forward to seeing you next week uh I know that Harrison has a has a great agenda and went through it earlier um and we will enjoy.
[2024-06-11T16:56:05.668Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks!!
[2024-06-11T16:56:07.252Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: You all through the summer thanks everybody have a great week.
[2024-06-11T16:56:07.855Z]	<Marianne_Díaz_Hernández>	Thank you so much, everyone!
[2024-06-11T16:56:14.254Z]	<Transcriber>	Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: And thank you again Marianne this was really really fantastic.
