[2023-04-11T17:30:42.426Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-04-11T17:31:42.118Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-04-11T17:31:42.244Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-04-11T17:31:46.354Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-04-11T17:31:53.601Z]	<Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-04-11T17:33:07.696Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-04-11T17:33:07.696Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-04-11T17:33:16.836Z]	<Transcriber>	TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Recording is on.
[2023-04-11T17:33:25.956Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe+
[2023-04-11T17:33:26.291Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Okay I'll go and Scribe.
[2023-04-11T17:34:08.109Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/726
[2023-04-11T17:34:47.512Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is a PR for the shift to the non-drafgt version of the UN/CEFACT vocabulary
[2023-04-11T17:35:22.007Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This Pull request ended up taking a significant amount of manual work to make sure that all of the terms resolved
[2023-04-11T17:35:50.794Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We have two approvals, I'll go ahead and merge
[2023-04-11T17:36:01.025Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/491
[2023-04-11T17:36:03.937Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This was the only PR for trace-vocab this week
[2023-04-11T17:36:40.460Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-04-11T17:36:51.443Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/281
[2023-04-11T17:37:23.499Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is on agriculture, we pinged Russel, about half a year ago.
[2023-04-11T17:37:39.995Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah this looks doable I guess.
[2023-04-11T17:37:48.572Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Allocate some time to catching up in a backlog of old traceability tasks but this continues to look doable.
[2023-04-11T17:38:02.300Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Russel: This looks doable, I will need to prioritize the backlog to get time for this.
[2023-04-11T17:38:05.985Z]	<Transcriber>	Russell_Hofvendahl_(mesur.io): Yeah that's good.
[2023-04-11T17:38:09.345Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: What's up next we turn up sometimes.
[2023-04-11T17:38:31.727Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/217
[2023-04-11T17:38:40.742Z]	<TallTed>	s/turn up sometimes/turn on subtitles/
[2023-04-11T17:39:38.256Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is from Mahmoud who is not on today. We want to define what we mean by version 1. How can we progress this?
[2023-04-11T17:41:34.675Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/344
[2023-04-11T17:41:50.071Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I think we want to make concrete proposals. One would be to have criteria for credentials, freeze the version, and then any changes after that would need to go into version 2.
[2023-04-11T17:42:49.864Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Currently we do build a default vocab-expanded iri for any term not in the v1 context. The format is not very readable. We want to the IRI to be build for undefined terms to looker nice-r.
[2023-04-11T17:43:21.912Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: It would be also nice that if you clicked a link that it should provide information that, "this is an undefined term, the issuer should use a better term".
[2023-04-11T17:43:46.708Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: The coding side of this is easy once we agree to the data-model and i will link to the vc-data-model stuff that has happend since then
[2023-04-11T17:44:25.065Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/344#issuecomment-1209848310
[2023-04-11T17:44:33.025Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We have three thumbs up on your suggestion. Can we formalize that to say what you said in this comment?
[2023-04-11T17:45:03.279Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/344#issuecomment-1503834413
[2023-04-11T17:45:23.845Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Oh wait, I see it got updated. Any objections to the new recomendation?
[2023-04-11T17:46:05.481Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I didn't intend that url as a recomendation, but an example. We have two options, we can copy off what they're doing in VC v2, or we can give people the ability to distinguish.
[2023-04-11T17:46:28.356Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: If we go with our own, would you still call it issuer-dependent, or undefined term?
[2023-04-11T17:47:01.276Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I would do "issuer-dependent". Let's replace the current vocab that we're expanding with to the one we know will be in the VC v2 would be the least contentious.
[2023-04-11T17:47:12.373Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Would you mind adding that to the issue?
[2023-04-11T17:48:24.438Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Any objections to using the VC working group term?
[2023-04-11T17:48:36.206Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Okay, marking as ready for PR
[2023-04-11T17:49:39.009Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/290
[2023-04-11T17:50:09.856Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is from Vlad and assigned to Mahmoud. This is on EPCIS, Let's ping Mahmoud.
[2023-04-11T17:50:34.726Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/277
[2023-04-11T17:51:23.976Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: The problem is making it working on the linked-data side. I suggest we close this.
[2023-04-11T17:51:43.640Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I don't think we have a concrete proposal on this one.
[2023-04-11T17:52:57.913Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: In general we don't generate any JSON-LD for domain, range and inheritance. And we lack the experience to build with these pieces. I think Ted understands domain and range, but I don't see how we're going to make progress with the kind of comments we're seeing on it.
[2023-04-11T17:53:17.034Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Let's put a comment to that effect and mark is as pending close.
[2023-04-11T17:53:37.337Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/385
[2023-04-11T17:54:38.576Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: For this the EPCIS I've put that aside because GS1 came out with their data model, which is more relevant to me. Let me ping myself on this.
[2023-04-11T17:54:55.713Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/635
[2023-04-11T17:56:19.627Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is from me, we're calling ourselves trace-vocab, but we're trying not to define our own vocab. It seems like a misleading name for our project. It causes friction and resistant against trace-vocab like on the UN side. Trying to explain that we don't have not-shipped-here syndrome.
[2023-04-11T17:56:25.523Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Does the problem make sense?
[2023-04-11T17:57:19.825Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ted: We're not taking the schemas whole-sale so effectively we're making an ad-hoc vocab, saying these are the vocabs that make sense and using the terms as is.
[2023-04-11T17:57:28.395Z]	<Orie>	+1 Ted
[2023-04-11T17:57:40.811Z]	<Orie>	maybe some more introduction text is necessary
[2023-04-11T17:57:54.010Z]	<Orie>	@nis consider assigning yourself :)
[2023-04-11T17:57:56.535Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ted: We're saying, 'these are the ones to use'. So i think that trace-vocab is the way to go. We can describe our approach to make it more clear.
[2023-04-11T17:58:22.479Z]	<Orie>	again, +1 Ted :)
[2023-04-11T17:58:43.353Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I'm happy to close this, but I wanted to bring it up.
[2023-04-11T17:58:45.718Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/637
[2023-04-11T18:01:07.861Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I can quickly summarize this. Our schemas are a lot larger than the examples that are being defined. So including Organization makes a schema massive, even though the example is only 50 lines of JSON. So the schema isn't representative of the object that it's trying to define.
[2023-04-11T18:01:20.388Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I understand, there's some cases where you can't do that.
[2023-04-11T18:03:01.388Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I think that we could have some threshold like 90& coverage and then pull that into our CI tools.
[2023-04-11T18:03:45.378Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I think we should be getting the requirements down before jumping into tooling.
[2023-04-11T18:04:09.018Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I'd be jumping into tooling to break it and see where and how it breaks before following up with the nuance.
[2023-04-11T18:04:19.547Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Sounds good marking as read yfor PR and assigning Ben.
[2023-04-11T18:05:31.702Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-04-11T18:06:41.021Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/640
[2023-04-11T18:06:45.784Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/406
[2023-04-11T18:07:41.800Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: It looks like this has a Pull Request that's been merged. Can we mark it as done?
[2023-04-11T18:08:18.332Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Looking through the PR, it looks like there aren't any FIBO vocab, which is what I think it is.
[2023-04-11T18:08:32.127Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: We can try to declare victory and see if anyone takes it away from us.
[2023-04-11T18:09:02.959Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Oh, I see it's a schema, but it's redefining all terms. I bet it would be easy to update those terms to point at something real.
[2023-04-11T18:09:57.312Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: It might be something for the roadmap where we declare a requirement to use certain terms, which would cause us to come back to this.
[2023-04-11T18:10:16.562Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I think that might be going too far. There are terms that are not defined. I guess we can close this.
[2023-04-11T18:10:28.861Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Never mind, let's mark it as pending close.
[2023-04-11T18:10:47.781Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/536
[2023-04-11T18:11:08.732Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Finally something we can close. We just merged my PR for this earlier.
[2023-04-11T18:11:16.374Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/653
[2023-04-11T18:13:00.122Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/633
[2023-04-11T18:13:04.689Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: This looks like a placeholder to comeback and restore previous changes.
[2023-04-11T18:13:19.263Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Let's mark it ready for pr and assign ourselves.
[2023-04-11T18:13:57.568Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I found this, we should not have invalid geo-coordinates. We're not using geo-coordinates as often we we expect.
[2023-04-11T18:14:02.244Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/280
[2023-04-11T18:16:13.341Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This one is from Vlad.
[2023-04-11T18:16:31.599Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: There are some specific suggestions here. 
"Decide which objects can live at top level or externally (first-class objects), and which are only ever embedded (second-class slaves)
Decide that first-class objects must be identified by URL
Eg for a LOCODE-identified place, you need to pick a LOCODE URL scheme, even if uncefact isn't quite ready for that
For GLNs, you must adopt the GS1 convention that GLNs will be expressed as URLs not URNs, at the GS1 resolver or company sites
Rework all schemas to allow referencing first-class objects. IMHO it'll be simpler to postulate them only at top-level, or externally served"
[2023-04-11T18:17:38.542Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I think it might be expensive to map out all of the classes and then flatten the places where it loops back on itself.
[2023-04-11T18:18:19.957Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I'll assign myself and then confirm with Vlad here to see if what i'm suggesting here makes sense.
[2023-04-11T18:19:55.307Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/654
[2023-04-11T18:20:39.188Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: GS1 uses british english and we want to use US english. It would be nice to have GS1 take a look at this.
[2023-04-11T18:20:57.009Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Actually I think we might be able to close this ticket because they took this action else-where.
[2023-04-11T18:21:42.491Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/272
[2023-04-11T18:21:43.797Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Never mind, let's close this if we find a duplicate.
[2023-04-11T18:22:31.317Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: It looks like the last action was to add a pending close tag.
[2023-04-11T18:22:39.855Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: That was half a year ago, let's close it.
[2023-04-11T18:22:50.204Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/273
[2023-04-11T18:25:16.283Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: I think we can draft out the PR on the issue and if that's okay.
[2023-04-11T18:26:58.651Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: My thinking is that we would have the JSON field values be correct to a specific region and then have the terms be the generic international version suggested.
[2023-04-11T18:27:22.666Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe-
