Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-03-05/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-03-05/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-03-05.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2024-03-05

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Mar&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Harrison Tang, Rashmi Siravara, Leonard Rosenthol, Wes-Smith, 
  Jennie M, Brent Zundel, Mahesh Balan - pocketcred.com, Gregory 
  Natran, Will, Nis Jespersen , Brian Campbell, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, 
  TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Manu Sporny, 
  Erica Connell, Geun-Hyung, Dmitri Zagidulin, Sharon Leu, Joe 
  Andrieu, Brandi Delancey, Benjamin Young, James Chartrand, Wendy 
  Seltzer, GregB, Jeff O - HumanOS, Jin Wen, Tim Bloomfield, David 
  I. Lehn, Kayode Ezike, pauld gs1, E-ming, Laura Paglione, Brian 
  Richter

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Harrison_Tang: By the way will do you want to take it this time 
  or you want me to do it.
Harrison_Tang: All right I'll I'll uh lead the meeting this time.
Harrison_Tang: All right so uh hello everyone uh to uh this 
  week's w3c meeting um.
Harrison_Tang: From Adobe to present the latest developments on.
Harrison_Tang: Before we get there um just want to quickly go 
  through a couple agenda items uh first of all just a quick 
  reminder on the cola ethics and professional conduct reminder uh 
  just want to make sure that everyone makes respectful comments I 
  think we've been doing that for years uh haven't had an issue uh 
  but uh it's always good to start the meeting with a quick 
  reminder.
Harrison_Tang: Another quick reminder on the intellectual 
  property note.
Harrison_Tang:  anyone can.
Harrison_Tang: A steps of contrib.
Harrison_Tang: Ions to any.
Harrison_Tang: Species you work.
Harrison_Tang: Must be member.
Harrison_Tang: Of the she.
Harrison_Tang: With 4 I.
Harrison_Tang: So if you have any questions in regards to getting 
  a w3c account or signing the community contributor license 
  agreement uh please feel free to pin any of the cultures here.
Harrison_Tang: A quick call note uh these meetings are 
  automatically being uh recorded and also transcribed um we will 
  try to publish these meeting notes in the next 24 hours I think 
  we've been pretty good at that uh but if you actually see any 
  errors in regards to the automatic transcription uh please pin uh 
  please pay me and then I'll try to uh correct it if it's a 
  material error.
Harrison_Tang: I will use uh GT chat to cue the speakers during 
  the call so you can type in Q Plus to add yourself to the queue 
  or cue minus to remove I'll be the moderator.
Harrison_Tang:  all right.
Harrison_Tang: Uh a quick moment for the introductions or 
  reintroductions so if you're new to the community or you haven't 
  been active and want to re-engage with the community uh please 
  feel free to uh unmute and just uh introduce yourself.
Harrison_Tang: Write any announcements or reminders.
Harrison_Tang: Funny in place.
Manu Sporny:  Uh yeah just uh a fairly regular reminder that the 
  verifiable credentials working group is continued continuing to 
  progress um the uh the the various specifications through this 
  the standardization process so um we we kind of reported out uh 
  Brent did a wonderful presentation uh last week and reported out 
  on uh where we were in the the standardization process and all 
  the specifications that are being done um we are.
Manu Sporny:  Planning to go into candidate recommendation with 
  the BBS uh cryptography Suite uh this month.
Manu Sporny:   And then.
Manu Sporny:  Specification next month.
Manu Sporny:  And then that's in April and then uh in may we will 
  probably uh submit the final round of candidate recommendation.
Manu Sporny:  Uh specifications for the the vc20 data model so 
  that's like we're probably going to be like completely done um 
  with the VC data model spec in May and uh potentially we'll put 
  the data Integrity specifications into another candidate 
  recommendation round at that time um.
Manu Sporny:  Basically signal that we are done with those uh 
  specifications um uh VC cozy Hosey is expected to go into 
  candidate recommendation sometime um uh next month as well so 
  lots of stuff happening lots of stuff getting locked in if you 
  you know if you are like if you're implementing that's great um 
  but now's really the time to to start uh implementing against uh 
  the test Suites and things of that nature um uh.
Manu Sporny:  That's it uh for the updates.
Harrison_Tang: Thank you man.
Harrison_Tang: Any other uh announcements or reminders.
Harrison_Tang: By a quick uh preview of what's coming at the ccg 
  so next week uh we actually uh got the CEO of I proof uh to talk 
  about biometric authentication so we're going to switch the topic 
  a little bit away uh know well add a new diverse topic uh a 
  little bit more controversial 1 uh but yeah I got the we got a 
  expert in this field in regards to biometric authentication to 
  talk about that.
Harrison_Tang:  and then.
Harrison_Tang: The week after that.
Harrison_Tang: Are going to talk about the lithium and 
  post-quantum verifiable credentials.
Harrison_Tang:  and the.
Harrison_Tang: Week after that we're going.
Harrison_Tang: Requirements for Enterprise.
Harrison_Tang: And then uh we will have uh Benjamin to talk about 
  VC test Suite on April 2nd.
Harrison_Tang: All right any other announcements or reminders.
Harrison_Tang: Right I think everyone uh can wait for the main 
  agenda so again uh today we're very excited to have lender and 
  Eric Von Dolby uh I'll let them introduce themselves a little bit 
  but I think lender uh you actually uh were 1 of The Architects 
  for the PDF format so uh.
Harrison_Tang: Obviously you're very very well known figure and 
  then we are very very honored to have you here to talk about uh 
  c2p a coalition for Content prominence and authenticity uh thank 
  you the floor is yours.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Thank you and it's it's good to be back I've 
  uh you know a member of this community for quite a long time 
  although a very quiet 1 so it's always nice to be back and uh as 
  it were see some familiar faces so um let me jump in here I'm 
  gonna sort of set the stage give some background uh and talk 
  about the what we've been doing at the content uh at the 
  Coalition for Content provenance and authenticity the ctpa for a 
  while now uh and then I'm going to let Eric really spend most of 
  the time talking about.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Uh what he's been working on which is identity 
  and a new view that we have on identity.
Leonard_Rosenthol: For this work so I'm going to assume everyone 
  can see uh so I'm going to go ahead and jump in here.
Leonard_Rosenthol: So we're a c2a was founded in 2021 uh as a 
  standards body to focus on developing the technical 
  specifications around content provenance and authenticity again 
  our name uh and so we've been doing this.
Leonard_Rosenthol: For quite a while now we have a partner 
  organization called Cai some of you might be familiar with the 
  content authenticity initiative.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Mentioned them just because sometimes people 
  get them confused you can think of the c2p a as The Architects we 
  Define the standards and do the technical work um at the 
  standards level and the CI is then we think of as the contractors 
  of the builders and that they work on implementations they work 
  on education and Outreach uh around those standards.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Uh a lot of members we are uh at about a 
  hundred members to the ctpa and you can see lots of logos on the 
  screen I certainly won't bore you with those we also have 
  established liaison's uh with the iso Etsy and others so we have 
  tried to coordinate with a lot of other bodies and of course w3c 
  included although those are more informal relationships than 
  formal ones.
Leonard_Rosenthol: We focus on Excuse Me 3 pillars provenance 
  which is of course what we're going to talk most about education.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Also policy uh I'm not going to talk really 
  about the other 2 we're going to talk about provenance and how 
  that applies we also do not do detection uh detection is an arms 
  race uh the better your detector gets the better people try to 
  get better at beating it uh so we don't want to go down that path 
  it is better to declare um the truth the history the origin of 
  content than it is to try to guess.
Leonard_Rosenthol: And of course.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Provenance if you're not familiar with the 
  term the who the what the where the when the how and the why so 
  it's all the information you want about a given piece of content.
Leonard_Rosenthol: When we went into this um work we very clearly 
  did not want to reinvent any Wheels uh we did not want to design 
  anything new but instead rely on prior battle tested techniques 
  and that's why we use well-established cryptography and signature 
  technology well-established packaging and serialization 
  Technologies uh and and even identity related pieces that are 
  Eric we'll talk about.
Leonard_Rosenthol: We do not require cloud storage or distributed 
  ledgers or blockchains but we allow for it uh there are a number 
  of implementations out there today that connect content are uh 
  what we call our manifests or our content credentials with clouds 
  and ledgers and blockchains and that's great and we're all in 
  favor of that but the standard itself.
Leonard_Rosenthol: And we need this to work across the history 
  and the life cycle of any type of asset whether that is an image 
  of video and audio a document 3D arvr text we are again agnostic 
  to format as well.
Leonard_Rosenthol: We are so in 2021 we published our first 
  version version 1.0 of the spec we just this year published 
  version 2 so we're currently at version 2 of the course 
  specification that core specification is 1 of 8 documents.
Leonard_Rosenthol: 2 of them are normative 6 of them are 
  informative so we have explainers and we have guidance documents 
  and we have documents discussing security and harms.
Leonard_Rosenthol: As well as our core spec and these are all 
  available online and you're more than welcome to of course please 
  peruse them file issues concerns about them if you have any reach 
  out to us.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Uh so what is this it is a model for storing 
  and accessing cryptographically verifiable and tamper evident 
  information whose trustworthiness can be assessed based on a 
  defined trust model.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Okay what do we mean what we mean is that we 
  have a way to establish this thing called a Content credential 
  that's the the human term technically under the hood we call this 
  a c2p a manifest.
Leonard_Rosenthol: But basically it's a set of assertions to set 
  of.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Pieces of information uh and they could be 
  anything such as Identity or the actions that were taken or 
  ingredients that were used or you know there are um dozens of 
  predefined assertions and there are the the ability to have 
  custom uh information or assertions so you put together all of 
  these assertions that you'd like about a given piece of ass given 
  piece of content.
Leonard_Rosenthol: You then wrap these up in a claim and so all 
  of each assertion is hashed the claim then hashes the entire 
  assertion store.
Leonard_Rosenthol: And describes a bunch of other information 
  such as who is making the claim what is making the claim when is 
  the claim being made and then that is all digitally signed uh by 
  the claim signature so as you hear we have a Merkel tree like 
  approach of hashes of hashes of hashes all wrapped around with 
  that final signature.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Common well understood technology.
Leonard_Rosenthol: 1 of the things that we've added over the last 
  year or so because of what's happening in the world and this 
  should be no surprise is specific functionality related to 
  generative.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Right content to identify itself as having 
  either been created by or participating in Modified by uh 
  generative AI systems uh we do not only generative AI but regular 
  AI all the way from the.
Leonard_Rosenthol: All the way.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Again in this particular case generative AI 
  big big fancy terms people like it it's in the news.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Uh we can establish whether or not or it is 
  established as part of that provenance whether a given asset is 
  created.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Or Modified by Ai and potentially even wear um 
  that took place we allow the establishment of what we call the 
  recipe so not only what was created but how did you get there for 
  example if you used a prompt like in a text image system or you 
  provided a reference image all of that kind of thing could go in 
  there that's the recipe.
Leonard_Rosenthol: And then there's the other side of the coin 
  which is to comply with laws like the European TDM text and data 
  mining law we also support the ability for creators Publishers 
  and others to identify whether or not content can be trained or 
  used for training or not and under what circumstances so complete 
  mechanism for doing all of this and again this is all part of 
  parcel of those assertions that I was talking about previously.
Leonard_Rosenthol: As I mentioned we support a lot of different 
  formats some of the ones this is not a comprehensive list but you 
  can see lots of different image formats video formats audio 
  documents and even fonts themselves uh can have a manifest or 
  content credential associated with it uh you can even do it to 
  plain text or Json or anything can be.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Have a manifest uh if it's not embedded and 
  for that reason you can also store these in file systems clouds 
  dlts you can reference them by URL or HTTP header or the like so 
  very very flexible system as I mentioned allows for clouds allows 
  for dlts doesn't require it um so you can mix and match these 
  pieces in a lot of different ways uh and that's what people have 
  done so far.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Uh this as I mentioned if it wasn't clear the 
  idea is that provenance grows over time so you get a manifest a 
  creation you add another 1 at editing another 1 of publishing Etc 
  and so when the user has finally consuming the content they can 
  see the complete history the complete provenance of that asset.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Uh just briefly the cryptography we today uses 
  based on the same model as the web.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Hashes uh we support a number of them you know 
  certainly the shop family is the most popular we use x509 
  certificates and again we're modeled after things like browsers 
  PDF Etc things that people know understand under well 
  established.
Leonard_Rosenthol: But at the end of the day trust isn't a yes or 
  no it's not a minority value a human has to make the final 
  decision about whether or not they trust a given asset instead we 
  provide so all of these assertions all of the cryptography all of 
  these pieces represent a series of signals we call Trust signals 
  that a user can view as part of the process and you saw a UI that 
  exists today for showing it.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Not a mandate.
Leonard_Rosenthol: 1 that we.
Leonard_Rosenthol: And the user.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Make the final decision uh and this is 
  necessary because even you take 2 individuals looking at the 
  exact same set of signals and they could make 2 very different 
  decisions uh the example I like to give is uh here in the United 
  States.
Leonard_Rosenthol: If a Take 2 people and you they have a 
  verified piece of content from CNN 1 will say I trust CNN the 
  other will say I don't trust CNN so it has nothing to do with the 
  veracity uh or the provenance of the content it has to do with 
  their trust of the signer and that makes perfect sense and that's 
  as it should be.
Leonard_Rosenthol: 1 of the downsides however provenance is that 
  it can become detached uh unfortunately 1 of the things that a 
  lot of systems today do is they strip uh provenance they strip 
  metadata because they don't know about it it's new it's different 
  um they've never seen it before um and they don't do it on 
  purpose they just strip everything because they assume if it's 
  not the actual image or it's not the actual video don't need it 
  throw it away uh and so the.
Leonard_Rosenthol: It's necessary to also consider how do you 
  connect that provenance to an asset when it has been stripped or 
  detached.
Leonard_Rosenthol: And so we talked about a 3-legged stool in 
  addition to that provenance which is always there we want to 
  connect that with watermarking technology and we want to connect 
  that with fingerprinting technology.
Leonard_Rosenthol: And so we are working right now on a standard 
  that connects open-source as well as closed.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Source commercial approaches the watermarking 
  across various asset types.
Leonard_Rosenthol: And establish standards so that there can be a 
  common way to represent the uh.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Manifest within a word or Mark find it and 
  retrieve it regardless of which approach is used so that's 1 of 
  our biggest efforts right now.
Leonard_Rosenthol: There are lots of implementations of the 
  technology already out there today uh large companies of course 
  you may know of adobe and Microsoft Hardware manufacturers such 
  as Qualcomm Leica has an embedded in their cameras open-source 
  tooling like xif Tool uh and many others uh are out there already 
  implementing this technology uh and many more to come people have 
  announced support including open AI Google and others.
Leonard_Rosenthol: So let me just wrap up and then I'm going to 
  let Eric jump in to give you an idea of where identity fits into 
  this and where we're going because I know that's the most 
  important thing to many of you so as I said we are establishing 
  the core standards to establish provenance in a variety of 
  different um content types including live and streaming content 
  and we are not only working to standardize it ourselves I didn't 
  mention this but we're also working with the iso so that for 
  those countries that require something through a formal uh sdo uh 
  that can also be addressed.
Leonard_Rosenthol: So I'm going to stop here Eric I'm going to go 
  ahead and turn things over to you and then we'll take Q&A at the 
  end.
Leonard_Rosenthol: The screen with an arrow at the bottom 
  toolbar.
Leonard_Rosenthol: No not yet.
Harrison_Tang: You're sharing your screen.
Leonard_Rosenthol: We did and then you switched over to Slack.
Manu Sporny:  Hey um uh Leonard uh Eric fantastic presentation uh 
  that's really really cool stuff um in very there he is both of 
  you know.
Manu Sporny:  Um so so I'm wondering what the 2 questions the the 
  first 1 is how can this community helped further I'm sure we can 
  you know go to go to meetings and and things of that nature but 
  I'm sure we'd love to hear um you know how some of the the things 
  this community is working on that could be used with ctpa um how 
  that works going so like you know regular email for the mailing 
  list so that we could provide feedback I think would be certainly 
  welcome um the first question is how can we help um and the 
  second question is what do you see um as the as the biggest 
  challenges over the next 6 months um with the um the identity 
  assertion specification specifically.
Manu Sporny: 
  https://creator-assertions.github.io/identity/1.x-add-w3c-vc/
Leonard_Rosenthol: Yeah and I think as Eric said I think right 
  now this is the identity work uh is 1 of the you know the highest 
  priorities in our in our area and so getting all of the help that 
  we can get there is is absolutely welcome uh and I think article 
  put them in chat if he gets a chance but uh the the new identity 
  specification that he talked about is publicly viewable and draft 
  format and I know he would absolutely love all us speak for him 
  but would absolutely love all of the uh feedback file issues and 
  the male uh whatever is easiest so uh that would be a huge help.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Uh in that area.
https://creator-assertions.github.io/identity/
Harrison_Tang: All right Dimitri your next on the queue.
<eric_scouten_(adobe)> Meeting info: 
  https://creator-assertions.github.io/#_meeting_schedule
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thanks uh Eric and and Leonard thank you so 
  much for presenting I think a lot of us in this community are 
  really excited about this work uh 2 questions 1 is uh you 
  mentioned hash links in the uh the whole infrastructure and I was 
  just wondering uh which hash link format using and then question 
  number 2 I think a lot of um thus a lot of us on this call are 
  super curious about is where do you see dids playing a role in 
  the identity infrastructure.
Leonard_Rosenthol: So I I'll take the first 1 since that's my 
  fault and I or take the second 1.
Leonard_Rosenthol:  uh yes.
Leonard_Rosenthol: A quick history when when we started the work 
  we were using Json as our serialization format and so uh I 
  connected up with Manu and so as far as I know my name is still 
  on the hash link draft uh specification for actually how to to do 
  that as a single URL.
Leonard_Rosenthol: And that was where we started.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Switched our serialization from Json to sibur 
  we recognized that we could take advantage of sibur binary 
  structure so we've defined our own object you know see where 
  object with fields for algorithm and hash so it's the same 
  Concepts but it's now expressed as a sibur object instead of a 
  single string um same ideas though.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Got it do you uh are you intending to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Make a standalone spec for that or contribute 
  that to the it draft.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Honestly we had no nobody's approached us 
  about being interested in using it in addition but we would have 
  no objection to doing that at all.
Leonard_Rosenthol: You to do it.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And what about debts.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Great send yeah.
<harrison_tang> We just had a presentation where one claims that 
  DID DHT (Distributed Hash Table) is the DID method to rule them 
  all  :D
Leonard_Rosenthol: I will say 1 other thing that uh so Eric is 
  right that the the primary focus for DS is is over an identity 
  that said there is still a a support for using a did as a Content 
  identifier in the core ctba spec so every asset is assigned a 
  unique identifier and and and it can be any identifier we don't 
  mandate where it comes from what it looks like anything we just 
  say stick and identifiers here and tell us where it's coming from 
  and did our 1 of a series of of options that we suggest here's a 
  couple of the shoes from uh dids handles DOI and iscc are 4 that 
  we call out but even those aren't mandated.
Harrison_Tang: Hi Mammoth I think you're on the queue.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Awesome thank you uh wonderful presentation 
  I appreciate it very much I had a question about the redaction 
  side you mentioned that you can do after the fact redaction can I 
  ask is that happening at the point of presentation or exchange or 
  is that.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Can you talk a little bit more about how 
  that works and what really we can expect from that.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Yeah happy to do that so there there's no 
  mandate on to when redaction takes place the idea is that 
  somewhere later on in the life cycle of an asset the current I 
  won't use the word holder the current person who has the asset 
  and wants to continue it through its life cycle recognize that 
  there is some information currently in the provenance that needs 
  to be removed so the the normal example of this is that um your 
  the a publisher is about the public a photo taken in a war zone 
  and recognizes that the photographer's name is still in there and 
  if they left it in that could be detrimental to their health so 
  they want to redact out that information before they send it on 
  um you that might also include you know removing or blurring of 
  face or you know some other aspect but that's that was the use 
  case why we put it in there.
Leonard_Rosenthol: That said there.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Why uh you might want to do it in various use 
  cases or flows so no don't care when um but if you choose to 
  there's a defined way to do it.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Is this sorry is this a 2-way operation can 
  I unredacted.
Leonard_Rosenthol: No no then it would not be good redaction.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Okay thank you.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Is there a way to link from the new manifest 
  to the old manifest.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Yes it happens within when you in the 
  establishment of the provenance each piece is linked to the other 
  through what we call you I use the term ingredient before so 1 
  type of ingredient is a parent ingredient which is how the the 
  things chained to each other.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Thank you that was all my questions.
Harrison_Tang: Money you're next.
Manu Sporny:  Uh I think uh Brent and maybe Harrison you and and 
  then me.
Harrison_Tang: Okay alright alright.
Brent Zundel:  Uh apologies if this is a a 2 basic a question so 
  I have a a PDF I would like to um make some assertions about the 
  the content uh I produce a CCPA c2p manifest.
Brent Zundel:  Documents Associated as as far as the mod like is 
  this is the manifest inside the PDF is the PDF inside the 
  Manifest where are the signatures how does this all fit together.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Yeah great question so the recommendation and 
  it's not the it's not mandated in any way but our our preferred 
  model is that the Manifest goes inside the asset so in this case 
  the Manifest goes into the PDF and the specification the c2a spec 
  says in the case of PDF it goes here so it gives you a specific 
  place in the PDF data structures and it does that for all of 
  those formats I listed earlier so here's how to put it in a JPEG 
  here's how to put it in an MP4 video Etc um but you don't have to 
  if there are reasons why you would like to keep the 2 detachable 
  you want to keep the Manifest in the cloud or put it on a DLT you 
  can do that too but the normal scenario is it goes into a 
  specific place in the PDF for your example and that manifest is 
  itself is signed it's a self-contained blob which includes a 
  digital signature in the case of PDF you can also apply.
Leonard_Rosenthol:  apply a PDF signature.
Leonard_Rosenthol: On top of that.
Leonard_Rosenthol: And then connect the 2 as well um so there's 
  actually in in the spec talks about the details of of how the 2 
  types of signatures working in conjunction with each other.
Harrison_Tang: So I have a related question so let's say a 
  document has a long history of edits or Forks uh in other words 
  uh there's a lot of manifest there's all those manifests go with 
  the document and if so are there like implications to the Speed 
  and Performance when you're checking the prominence.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Excellent question so again as we mentioned 
  it's not mandatory that it all be included uh you know again you 
  could start sticking out in the cloud if you've got certain 
  workflows but uh yes if it all goes there and it's got a long 
  history that could get large uh we do support compression uh so 
  we have a a model for compressed manifests.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Specifically and then with respect to 
  validation there's the only thing that's required to be 
  validated.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Is the top level manifest what we call the 
  active manifest there is no mandate to walk the entire chain at 
  validation time usually because usually the user just cares has 
  this thing been modified since the last time and tell me who 
  signed it and and that's what I care about however there are user 
  experiences where you can dive into it and walk the entire chain 
  and then in that case you would probably do level by level or 
  ingredient by ingredient validation and again that's all 
  described in the spec.
Harrison_Tang: Got it thank you.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah going back to Eric's question around uh or 
  just statement around you know their 80 180 plus did methods 
  which is true and it's really hard to pick between them which is 
  also true um I'm I'm looking at the model here in I mean it is it 
  is x509 surfaced right I mean the the there's a trust model here 
  that X5 or 9 surf based and I'm wondering if that could be a 
  filtering function on the did methods specifically you know if we 
  look at what's being deployed today there seems to be um a 
  certain amount of um uh confidence that deploying did web is an 
  okay first step it's it doesn't mean it's the final step and it's 
  the end all be all but um if you're using x509 certs in those 
  certs could be exposed through you know the the standard you know 
  uh uh DNS um uh x509 you know infrastructure then that might be a 
  good place.
Manu Sporny:   To start.
Manu Sporny:  And ephemeral did method could also be uh 1 of 
  those things but it feels to me like did Webb would be a good fit 
  for like let's start here and then and then go out instead of 
  like which 1 of these 180 methods do we want it you know proposed 
  for us has that discussion happened in in the group yet.
Harrison_Tang: Mash you're next on the queue.
Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Yes um great presentation thank 
  you guys uh just uh had a question about verification um as a 
  user when I view a document a video is is the verification run as 
  part of this and then a logo displayed I mean how does that work 
  for a regular person who doesn't want to kind of open up the 
  whole you know the Manifest and things of that nature.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Absolutely it's a great question so uh the 
  user we have a whole 1 of those documents I mentioned before is 
  called our user experience guidelines and so it goes into quite a 
  lot of detail uh about the questions you asked you're asking and 
  so the way we address it is we have um multiple levels.
Leonard_Rosenthol: So in ux so we L1 level 1 is just what we call 
  pin it's a simple logo or icon that would be associated with it 
  so user could look very quickly and see yes this piece of content 
  has credentials or it doesn't have credentials and potentially 
  are those credentials valid or not valid or what you know there's 
  a little X or something on them so like very quick view.
Leonard_Rosenthol: There's a level 2 which is where depending on 
  the experience rather than just putting up that pin uh ux could 
  display information like who was the signer so it might say you 
  know and the time and date in addition to the logo uh and you 
  know that depends on the the user experience scenario and then 
  levels 3 and level 4 is where you get into all of the details of 
  the Manifest and the histories and the you know ingredients and 
  everything so yes is the short is the short answer and hopefully 
  the longer 1 also gave you some context.
https://contentcredentials.org
Manu Sporny:  So I'm I'm wondering what the logical conclusion to 
  this work is right I mean so the the presumption is this is going 
  to be successful and it's going to be out there and there is 
  going to be content that where you can verify the authenticity of 
  it.
<leonard_rosenthol> shows how the UX works ^^
Manu Sporny:  And there's going to be content where you can't and 
  given uh you know where our generative AI is going and how good 
  it's getting and how rapidly it's getting there um what what what 
  do both of you think is the endgame here are we going to be 
  looking at our devices and and the devices going to warn us hey 
  the thing you're about to watch we have no idea where it came 
  from it could be generate it could be generated that kind of 
  thing such that everything will need a a a some form of 
  contentusing in in news I'm wondering if you know like it could 
  be equally useful in shorts where we thought the short was for 
  entertainment purposes but it's actually providing some kind of 
  social nudge 1 way or the other as to as to what we think so 
  where where do you think the logical conclusion is here.
Leonard_Rosenthol: I'll give you my opinion so this is a personal 
  opinion it's not the opinion of an organization my personal 
  opinion is that I believe it is important that content provide 
  provenance just like if I were to go buy something at an auction 
  I want the like the pictures on the wall behind me all came with 
  Providence I know where they came from I know that they're real 
  and certified I personally want to see that on my content so that 
  when I care I can go and look for it so if I happen to be on a 
  website that I trust um you know if I go to the BBC for example I 
  trust the BBC I'm on their site I'm not so concerned that every 
  single picture and every single video I'm looking out on that 
  site has prominence because I trust the site.
Leonard_Rosenthol: But if I'm on Facebook or Instagram or pick 
  your favorite social media.
Leonard_Rosenthol: See all sorts.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Of things coming.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Through that I don't necessarily trust the 
  sender or it's a friend of a friend or whatever and then yes I 
  would want to see that information um that said I don't think we 
  ever want it mandated I think mandating that gets us into all 
  sorts of you know um you know controlled democracies or whatever 
  uh totalitarian in regimes and that doesn't work.
Leonard_Rosenthol: And care about it it makes for a better world.
Harrison_Tang: So so I have a quick follow-up question actually I 
  have 2 questions uh 1 is uh I'm assuming some creators probably 
  would love this because they will be able to show that they are 
  the original creator of this content and actually gets on 
  licensing uh money out of it so I'm curious if uh this uh.
Harrison_Tang: Uh this actually has the ability to actually 
  coupled with payments and then the second is uh a little bit 
  unrelated which is leather in your previous presentation in your 
  in your presentation you showed like a 3 3 pillars right is 
  provenance the second 1 is watermarking and third 1 is 
  fingerprinting like what is fingerprinting because we went over a 
  provenance you show a slide on watermarking can you clarify what 
  fingerprinting is.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Absolutely so uh and I'll I'll answer them in 
  that order so the the first question is that that c2p a very 
  specifically does not want to get into the business of DRM or 
  payments or Rights Management or anything in that field um.
Leonard_Rosenthol: The underlying technology is absolutely 
  designed to allow for it if someone wants to build upon it uh and 
  in fact we've talked to a number of companies out there already 
  who are in the midst of building um.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Ownership authorship Payment Systems Etc that 
  leverage our provenance technology so.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Yes and no in that regard uh with respect to 
  payments uh so fingerprinting is really just a fancy term for 
  similarity um checking so if you think about going on to a Google 
  or a Bing or whatnot and doing you know have you ever seen an 
  image like this 1 before uh that's what fingerprinting is it says 
  find me something like this.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Uh and so that way if you the watermark has 
  been destroyed the provenance has been destroyed find me 
  something that looks like this and then again as a human I can 
  make a determination.
Harrison_Tang: Got it thank you and we'll take 1 last question 
  Ted.
<tallted_//_ted_thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)> You might be 
  interested in the W3C Credible Web CG. Currently meeting roughly 
  quarterly. https://credweb.org/
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I just 
  quickly um you had mentioned something a minute ago about uh 
  credibility on the web uh you might find interesting the credible 
  web community group uh which have thrown a link into chat for.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Yeah good calling that out that you you know 
  you and I have both been members of that group since its 
  Inception.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Oh okay 
  great.
Leonard_Rosenthol: Thank you for you for calling it out I know 
  it's gone through some waves and ups and downs uh but yeah it is 
  a very important organization and I'm hoping that we we can kick 
  it back off.
Harrison_Tang: All right thank you thank you landlord thank you 
  Eric for a great presentation and also thank you for uh leading 
  this great discussion uh thanks for taking the time it's 
  definitely very very interesting.
Harrison_Tang: We will publish the meeting minutes and the 
  recordings both video and audio recordings in the next 24 hours 
  and if you have any questions feel free to uh I guess uh reach 
  out to.
Harrison_Tang: This concludes this week's uh.
<eric_scouten_(adobe)> scouten@adobe.com
Harrison_Tang:  ctg meeting.
Harrison_Tang: We'll see you next week.
Harrison_Tang: Thanks a lot.
