[2024-01-30T18:31:15.404Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2024-01-30T18:31:17.277Z]	<Guilherme>	present+
[2024-01-30T18:31:35.423Z]	<Patrick>	present+
[2024-01-30T18:31:42.458Z]	<Guilherme>	present+
[2024-01-30T18:32:54.587Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2024-01-30T18:33:33.832Z]	<Patrick>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/613
[2024-01-30T18:36:26.887Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2024-01-30T18:36:26.887Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2024-01-30T18:36:57.207Z]	<Patrick>	scribe+
[2024-01-30T18:37:16.739Z]	<Patrick>	mahmoud: explained how to scribe
[2024-01-30T18:37:16.922Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2024-01-30T18:38:23.734Z]	<Patrick>	patrick: what is the goal of having empty @context fields
[2024-01-30T18:38:51.777Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2024-01-30T18:39:30.931Z]	<Patrick>	mahmoud: solution is, we shouldn't have empty context. It is an actionable issue
[2024-01-30T18:39:55.246Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/923
[2024-01-30T18:41:23.188Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/928
[2024-01-30T18:41:32.068Z]	<Patrick>	mahmoud: pr 928 reviewed, liked it more, ted had other change requests
[2024-01-30T18:42:28.071Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/506
[2024-01-30T18:43:06.234Z]	<Patrick>	patrick: what is the way to address which crypto suites to use
[2024-01-30T18:45:59.151Z]	<Patrick>	mahmoud: issue 506, discussion ongoing. VCDM 1.1 deals with signing with jws was done a specifically, blocked by migrating to VCDM 2.0, which should be stable and head to LTR sometime soon. What we resolved to is once VCDM 2.0 is ready/published we will migrate. TLDR, we are sticking with 2018 until migration.
[2024-01-30T18:46:20.042Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2024-01-30T18:46:38.941Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/869
[2024-01-30T18:47:54.171Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/217
[2024-01-30T18:48:38.589Z]	<Patrick>	mahmoud: suggest to close 217 because we are actively working on 1.0
[2024-01-30T18:49:05.371Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/744
[2024-01-30T18:49:48.989Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model-2.0/#names-and-descriptions
[2024-01-30T18:51:22.393Z]	<Patrick>	mahmoud: VCDM 2.0 includes names and description, therefore no need to ask for them in the schema
[2024-01-30T18:52:02.143Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c/sustyweb/issues/2
[2024-01-30T18:52:43.594Z]	<Patrick>	mahmoud: https://github.com/w3c/sustyweb/issues/2 Web sustainability guideline has published a draft, therefore we do not need to do this
[2024-01-30T18:53:00.396Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/742
[2024-01-30T18:56:11.690Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/743
[2024-01-30T18:57:31.559Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/tree/main/docs/openapi/components/schemas/snippets
[2024-01-30T18:58:03.683Z]	<Patrick>	patrick: what is snippet vs inline
[2024-01-30T18:58:27.202Z]	<Patrick>	mahmoud: we used to have reusable yaml file as a snippet, instead we inline values
[2024-01-30T19:00:18.101Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/767
[2024-01-30T19:00:21.235Z]	<Patrick>	mahmoud: should not block 1.0 however we still have some snippets to remove
[2024-01-30T19:01:58.644Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/767
[2024-01-30T19:02:08.842Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-vocab/#BankAccountCredential
[2024-01-30T19:02:23.263Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	mahmoud: if you have a cred, you shoudl probably list required fields directly
[2024-01-30T19:02:30.118Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	... not a 1.0 blocker
[2024-01-30T19:02:46.492Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/374
[2024-01-30T19:03:21.208Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	mahmoud: no actionable things for 1.0. waiting on nis and ben
[2024-01-30T19:03:29.744Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	... how do we reference an external vc or "thing"
[2024-01-30T19:03:40.263Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	... vcdm 2.0 solves this problem
[2024-01-30T19:04:11.554Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	... and we should use that solution
[2024-01-30T19:04:33.709Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/304
[2024-01-30T19:04:49.838Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	mahmoud: holding. We are waiting for schema.org folks. post 1.0
[2024-01-30T19:05:00.799Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/780
[2024-01-30T19:05:15.698Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	mahmoud: labeling 1.0, we may have missed this last time.
[2024-01-30T19:05:27.764Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	mahmoud: calling it.
