Thanks to ben_(transmute) and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-05-23-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-05-23-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-05-23

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=May&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  ben_(transmute) and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Russell Hofvendahl, Paul Dietrich GS1, Ben 
  (Transmute), Orie Steele, Chris Abernethy

ben_(transmute) is scribing.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Ben_(Transmute): Octopus is off.
Nis Jespersen : https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab
Nis Jespersen :  Thanks for  joining the weekly trace call. Make 
  sure to sign the contributor agreement.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/736
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/786
Orie Steele:  I was able to get the CI to pass. But it has 
  surfaced a couple of issues that would be good to discussed. 
  These are linked in the PR.
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/787
Orie Steele:  The first is schema validation for GS1 and schema 
  validation.
Orie Steele:  The original intention for the PR was a VC version 
  2 test suite and maybe even convert all of the existing 
  credentials to version 2 automatically. To start supporting v2. 
  There are places where we assert the structure of the context.
Orie Steele:  In the case of GS1 there is no trace context, but 
  in the case of MTR we have trace context. To be able to define 
  what the shape looks like in JSON schema. We want to know about 
  cases where the JSON is changed before getting to the verifier to 
  make sure time is not wasted.
Orie Steele:  One issue would be to add more contexts, which 
  would add a lot more processing time. Or adding a giant array of 
  empty objects, so schema validation is a security vector 
  especially for data integrity proofs.
Orie Steele:  So I can get a yes or no answer if a credential is 
  able to validate to schema. We might have an issue when we have 
  issues, like with GS1 we can bundle GS1 into our context. In our 
  respec document we're saying a context must be in some kind of 
  allow list.
Orie Steele:  The way we're handing schema validation is not 
  working for GS1 credentials.
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/736/files#diff-398c38414614698511f6dbce592de71d0be2b3b21504661a5fc7d033fea2eb26
Nis Jespersen :  I wanted to the comment about the "must include 
  traceability" limitation. The GS1 schemas do list which contexts 
  are required for which credentials. Are we in the clear if we 
  remove that constraint?
Orie Steele:  The respec document needs to be updated, and it 
  needs to match something to the example that I just linked. We 
  would expect to say that we have the v1 or v2 context, and then 
  we have some other list of credentials. And both our respec and 
  schemas need to say that.
Orie Steele:  Another thing we could say is traceabiliy schemas 
  only allow for version 1 or version 2 or both. And say here are 
  the other contexts that are allowed. What we should definitely 
  not do is say you can put in anything. And we should fix this 
  before we freeze.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/blob/main/docs/openapi/components/schemas/credentials/MillTestReportCredential.yml#L16
Nis Jespersen :  At line 16, isn't on a credential by credential 
  basis where you control what is allowed per schema. So if MTR is 
  v2, wouldn't that be reflected at this part of the schema? Do we 
  need to do anything else outside of updating the respec document?
Orie Steele:  You're correct, but if you change the property in 
  this schema, then it needs to line up with what we say in respec. 
  To say ONLY v1 or ONLY v2. But if you say either or, you run into 
  problems like issuanceDate is now validFrom.
<ben_(transmute)> Paul: I wanted to confirm, you want to have a 
  JSON schema to validate the context within some set that is 
  valid. What's the restriction on what rules you can apply in JSON 
  schema?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/blob/main/docs/openapi/components/schemas/credentials/GS1KeyCredential.yml#L16
Orie Steele:  You can make a very specific to only what is spec 
  legal. The GS1 data model that you guys have defined has which 
  contexts are allowed. And say that it must match that.
Nis Jespersen :  We list credential v1 and then two GS1 contexts.
Orie Steele:  So reading this out, what this really says, the 
  traceability GS1 key credential. This JSOn schema validates ONLY 
  validate credentials that fit the spec. And that should allow you 
  to check the schema before you do any JSON-LD processing.
<ben_(transmute)> Paul: And somehow this complicates things when 
  we move to VC v2?
Orie Steele:  In order for this to be legal in v2, GS1 would need 
  to say we're supporting v2. Think about this from a customs 
  agencies perspective. They want to know if they're v1 or v2 
  credentials. They want to know is there a schema that verifies an 
  instance of this JSON.
<ben_(transmute)> Paul: To support traceability with v2 GS1 needs 
  to provide v2 credentials. and a schema to define those 
  credentials.
Orie Steele:  So might have v1 GS1, v1 traceability, v2 GS1, and 
  vs traceability.
<ben_(transmute)> Paul: Do the versions align with the verifiable 
  credential data model?
Orie Steele:  Yes, so in v2 issueanceDate is now validFrom and 
  the schema would need to be updated.
Orie Steele:  The PR adds a v2 credential. And it would add a v2 
  credential that would be shipped. And there are a lot of software 
  libraries that won't be able to issue it. The core spec for v1 
  made it more difficult. So we want to decent when we want to do 
  that and how we want to do it. But it's likely we're going to be 
  in that situation where we have multiple version. and if GLIEF 
  adds credentials here, the same will apply as well.
Nis Jespersen :  Beyond this conversation, do we need to make a 
  decision where we have double support, and then deprecate version 
  1 before we get there?
Orie Steele:  I think the highest priority action item is to fix 
  the respec document to make GS1 valid to allow those contexts. 
  The v1 support is currently not correct.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-vocab/#extensions-to-standard
Orie Steele:  In summary if we merge 736 we will be in a world 
  with three kinds of context, And our respec document says there 
  is only one kind of context.
Orie Steele:  In that section we want to say, "these are the 
  contexts that you MUST support in order to conform to this 
  profile"
Nis Jespersen :  My opinion is that's a separate issue. We need 
  to update the respec, I would push towards merging, and then 
  clean up after ourselves.
Orie Steele:  Also we have tests where we expect v1 and it's 
  going to start surfacing weird errors. I made a comment in the 
  Pull Request.
Orie Steele:  We need to update the tooling if we merge 736.
Nis Jespersen :  Any objections to merging 736?
Nis Jespersen :  If we include a v2 credential, should we mark it 
  as experimental?
Orie Steele:  We have tags and they are being used.
Orie Steele:  If we merge this, there are other things we're 
  going to have to fix in short order.
Nis Jespersen :  We have three approvals, let's go ahead and 
  merge.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/774
<nis> acl paul
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/conformance/
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/conformance/
<ben_(transmute)> Paul: I ad a question if the lingering 
  conformance and interop. Are being help off? Looking at the 
  tests, the last was run in April?
Nis Jespersen :  They should be running nightly, these ran 17 
  hours ago, it looks like the date on the report page is not being 
  updated.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/774
Nis Jespersen :  Let's push forward with the pull requests.
Nis Jespersen :  The next is the CATAIR mapping. There are 
  changes requested and orie and mahmoud are not on the call, so 
  let's address that next time.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/779
Nis Jespersen :  This updates the Importer Security Filing and 
  took out Oil and Gas because oil is not transported with this 
  form.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/781
Nis Jespersen :  We had "The Thing" credential, which has the 
  ability to throw generic identifiers into an instance. So this 
  creates a more business oriented credential. Originally I 
  overwrote "The Thing" credentials. So this just adds an entry 
  number. And Mahmoud approved it.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/782
Nis Jespersen :  This aligns to the recommendation of using two 
  letter ISO country codes.
Nis Jespersen :  We got a response back from schema.org. And that 
  dialog has started.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/783
Russell Hofvendahl:  This is pretty straight forward to implement 
  consistent fake phone numbers. Where 555 is the standard fake 
  number.
Nis Jespersen :  Great, probably a lot of what you're fixing is 
  me not understanding the US area code.
Nis Jespersen :  I would go ahead and merge as soon as the 
  conflict is resolved.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/784
Russell Hofvendahl:  This one adds USDASpecialtyCrops237AForm in 
  response to feedback from AMS. This also goes into a few fields 
  in agriculture product. And it updates a few related credentials.
Russell Hofvendahl:  Extended products has some additional 
  information from agriculture product.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/785
Nis Jespersen :  This PR adds a workflows folder that defines a 
  traceable presentation.
<paul_dietrich_gs1> have to drop . Thanks everyone.
Nis Jespersen :  And this it takes those workflows and renders 
  them in the respec document using mermaid to render the sequence 
  diagrams.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/788
Nis Jespersen :  The next one builds on the previous PR and adds 
  more business workflows. It has SIMA and Mill Test Reports and 
  importer security filing.
Nis Jespersen :  Any questions on what this is doing?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/545
Chris Abernethy:  This one is brand new, so we might want to 
  leave it until next week. This is an old issue for how Azure 
  handles scope naming, which has a format that doesn't conform to 
  the format we use. We removed the normative requirements for 
  which scopes are required. And we make the assertion that 
  implementations have handled some scopes for security.
Nis Jespersen :  It's a little sad with how much work we put into 
  getting it.
Chris Abernethy:  After this came up, maybe we were over stepping 
  our bounds.
<ben_(transmute)> scribe-
