[2021-09-13T15:00:53.192Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Sep/0071.html
[2021-09-13T15:00:53.193Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> chair: Kerri_Lemoie, AnthonyFCamilleri
[2021-09-13T15:00:53.19rZ]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Agenda Review
[2021-09-13T15:00:53.292Z]	<Andy_Miller>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:00:53.293Z]	<Thierry_Thevenet>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:00:53.294Z]	<George_Artem>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:00:53.295Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:00:55.445Z]	<Wes_Teter>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:00:58.909Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:01:04.905Z]	<Steve_Gance>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:01:05.177Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:01:47.451Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:01:47.453Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: IP Note
[2021-09-13T15:03:08.559Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:03:25.158Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-09-13T15:03:25.992Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:03:35.075Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2021-09-13T15:03:39.464Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:03:43.318Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2021-09-13T15:03:56.231Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-09-13T15:04:11.554Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	http://irc.w3.org/?channels=ccg
[2021-09-13T15:04:36.623Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/irc_ref.html
[2021-09-13T15:04:40.331Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:08:52.259Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Call Notes
[2021-09-13T15:04:40.333Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Scribe Selection
[2021-09-13T15:04:54.145Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Happy to scribe Kerri
[2021-09-13T15:05:12.584Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Scribe: Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-09-13T15:05:12.585Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-09-13T15:05:17.468Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Intros and re-intros?
[2021-09-13T15:05:58.734Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:06:25.551Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	George Artem, not exactly new. Founded MetaCampus, the goal of which was to build a digital badging infrastructure and massively open administration. A tech summary recently published with the Founder of Nettherium (sp?).
[2021-09-13T15:06:50.594Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Wes asked for a re-intro
[2021-09-13T15:06:56.243Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:07:01.115Z]	<George_Artem>	https://georgeartem.com/metacampus/
[2021-09-13T15:07:07.033Z]	<George_Artem>	https://www.metacampus.us
[2021-09-13T15:07:09.769Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks @George!
[2021-09-13T15:07:17.768Z]	<George_Artem>	georgeartem@protonmail.com
[2021-09-13T15:07:40.529Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Wes Teter - works for UNESCO and works with LEF re: recognition of learning.
[2021-09-13T15:07:50.627Z]	<Wes_Teter>	https://bangkok.unesco.org/theme/higher-education
[2021-09-13T15:08:25.799Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://github.com/digitalcredentials
[2021-09-13T15:08:28.066Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Matt Lisle - works for Georgia Tech, and various ed tech projects. :-)
[2021-09-13T15:08:52.258Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:08:52.259Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2021-09-13T15:08:52.259Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Dmitri Zagidulin from the Digital Credentials Consortium (DCC) update on the Learner Wallet
[2021-09-13T15:09:13.210Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Dimitri Zagaidulin, software engineer for DCC, heading up the mobile edu wallet project.  Updates will be given and data model questions.
[2021-09-13T15:09:15.272Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1cJpmZKmNTTi_qQPT9FhVmULppYFDNe_YH4Cc5vUVlbI/edit
[2021-09-13T15:09:24.989Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Slides linked in Chat.
[2021-09-13T15:10:15.791Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	This is the DCC headed by MIT and other universities across the world, doing an open source credential wallet aimed at learners/students
[2021-09-13T15:10:33.253Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Tightly focused MVP release about to go to pilot this fall in the next few months.
[2021-09-13T15:11:02.377Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	In scope - general purpose learning wallet. Open source built in React using typical university use case.
[2021-09-13T15:11:48.920Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Institution issues completion of course completion with a URL or QR code you can scan. Can open email on a mobile device, or opened through Canvas, to use it add a credential to your mobile app.
[2021-09-13T15:12:18.334Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	You can collect and share the credentials via the typical SM abilities, email, text etc. of Android and iOS devices.
[2021-09-13T15:12:34.128Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:12:34.688Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Credentials are stored only on the phone but can be backed up and restored to the phone.
[2021-09-13T15:13:33.760Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Example screen shot, but all is "in progress" based on student/uni feedback. Screenshot based on credential detail view. What fields will be displayed? How will it support any kind of credential the student wants to store/display?
[2021-09-13T15:14:00.108Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Questions so far?
[2021-09-13T15:14:05.060Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:14:10.637Z]	<Phil_Barker>	q+
[2021-09-13T15:14:21.392Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_Barker
[2021-09-13T15:14:44.333Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Phil Barker -availability of the early release?
[2021-09-13T15:15:17.349Z]	<George_Artem>	q+
[2021-09-13T15:15:30.625Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Wallet source is here: https://github.com/digitalcredentials/cred-wallet
[2021-09-13T15:15:39.140Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	q+
[2021-09-13T15:15:40.511Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Will be available to anyone in the App Stores, and intend to roll out the compatible developer playgrounds for issuer and verifier apps for the unis in DCC and to the general public a few weeks later.
[2021-09-13T15:15:52.073Z]	<Nate_Otto>	No audio queue for me, but I am interested to hear: how will self sovereign identifiers be exposed to would-be issuers? What does sharing a credential of this sort via text message mean?
[2021-09-13T15:16:16.182Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack George_Artem
[2021-09-13T15:16:27.313Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Phil Barker - would be nice to have some dummy credentials to test with.  Dimitri says we'll talk about that in the next part of the presentation (dummy credentials).
[2021-09-13T15:16:51.109Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+ Nate_Otte
[2021-09-13T15:16:58.521Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	FYI: Kerri's link might not be the right repo. Might want Dimitri to address this.
[2021-09-13T15:17:10.121Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack jim_goddell
[2021-09-13T15:17:13.010Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	George - How detailed is the credential?  Dimitri - Targeting the finer grained credentials at the moment rather than the full learner record to start with.
[2021-09-13T15:17:24.521Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q- Nate_Otte
[2021-09-13T15:17:29.144Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:17:36.607Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+ Nate_Otto
[2021-09-13T15:17:36.654Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Jim - is the competency metadata embedded or linked to somewhere else?
[2021-09-13T15:18:09.371Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Dimitri - in discussion with the dev team now. At the moment they are stand alone, simple and fine grained to start with.
[2021-09-13T15:18:37.697Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack
[2021-09-13T15:18:40.374Z]	<Hans_Pongratz>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:18:43.273Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Nate_Otto
[2021-09-13T15:18:48.361Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:18:49.831Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Nate - how will self-sovereign identifiers be shared? Especially how will this work via text messages?
[2021-09-13T15:18:53.025Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:19:09.311Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Jim_Goodell
[2021-09-13T15:19:12.536Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:19:31.489Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Dimitri - sharing via text message is sharing the JSON blob of the credential. More useful as an email attachment but more useful as a test method.
[2021-09-13T15:19:45.014Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Not targeting ZKP in the initial release.
[2021-09-13T15:20:04.264Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	How the DID will be shared? The issuer is the interesting one.
[2021-09-13T15:21:27.631Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	At the moment various unis are exploring DIDs the credentials issued today are tied to exiting enterprise systems in traditional infrastructures. As an on ramp to get to SSI, at the time of issuance they have to present to the issuer a bundle - Dimitri is a student at uni 123 but also has this DID and should be issued with that included.
[2021-09-13T15:22:09.721Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:22:17.784Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Does the issuer know the identity of the student? Yes because the student is 'known' by the current systems. But they need to have a mechanism to bridge to DID methods of identity referencing.
[2021-09-13T15:22:45.570Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Dimitri- quick look at the full data model of the example credential could look like.
[2021-09-13T15:22:51.915Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pHhQFD1bTUUxEZmX1661eWrEcYpDZo7r0vtAWSHUluE/edit
[2021-09-13T15:23:05.235Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Caveat - it's an on-going conversation in development.
[2021-09-13T15:23:16.170Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-09-13T15:23:34.245Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pHhQFD1bTUUxEZmX1661eWrEcYpDZo7r0vtAWSHUluE/edit
[2021-09-13T15:23:44.820Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Don't put too much stock in the fields presented as final choices.
[2021-09-13T15:23:51.305Z]	<todd>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:24:24.559Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Optional credential ID.  Want a rich issuer field.  The person looking at UI wants to have a human readable name of the issuer, a logo and other ways to recognize the issuer
[2021-09-13T15:25:15.797Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Traditional spec requirements - when issued, when expires, other similar descriptors.  Has an optional Student Name, and hasCredential achievement style and cryptographic signature.
[2021-09-13T15:25:16.768Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:25:48.670Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	What does this mean for display logic?  What do we do about credential that require unique display logic?
[2021-09-13T15:26:25.672Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Kerri_Lemoie
[2021-09-13T15:26:58.156Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Kerri - assuming Dimitri is saying the wallet will accept native VC credentials? Or will they take the XML approach accepting other non-native payload types? Not to start with. Going with JSON-LD based native credentials to start
[2021-09-13T15:27:00.171Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:27:31.060Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	To clarify it will accept native OBv3 or CLR2 as VC credentials it will store.
[2021-09-13T15:27:31.522Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:27:44.106Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Answer to the question Kerri asked is "Yes"
[2021-09-13T15:29:32.610Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	What about other W3C native style VC credentials. At the moment we don't have a way to dictate the display of a credential in a strict fashion.  Are approaches of using an image to display a credential, Or someone has shown a vector image SVG blog combined with a template approach. This was a SVG rendered display with the insertion of the actual values of the JSON-LD fields. But there is no standard out there yet for rendering displays.
[2021-09-13T15:29:45.131Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Instead, basic agreement of minimal field set to display.
[2021-09-13T15:30:20.866Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Should have Name ,optional description of the credential type (course completion credential type)
[2021-09-13T15:30:59.211Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	taking a page from the Universal Wallet, let's give the insitution issuer a human readable name a logo - if no logo a generic image
[2021-09-13T15:31:55.470Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	targeting example spec to render its fields, and if your credential contains these common fields the wallet will render something. If there are specific other fields, e.g., number of credits
[2021-09-13T15:32:00.279Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:32:18.169Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-09-13T15:32:27.492Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Under the hood there will be field credential types that can be called upon to display something for those specific credential metadata.
[2021-09-13T15:32:59.429Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:33:21.145Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Will target specific credential with their render logic and ask the community to contribute their render logic for the kinds of fields they want to see.
[2021-09-13T15:33:34.948Z]	<Hans_Pongratz>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:33:56.180Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:34:01.956Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Kerri - if something like aligned skills, or in the short term a URL for the description that could point to information that should be displayed.
[2021-09-13T15:34:17.357Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q?
[2021-09-13T15:34:33.380Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Kerri_Lemoie
[2021-09-13T15:34:42.710Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	How does the university ID a student using the traditional student ID and its relation to a DID.
[2021-09-13T15:35:24.215Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Next steps - pilot deployment and invited contributions for display logic of fields in the credential.
[2021-09-13T15:35:51.639Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	The community should start thinking about this, doing wire frames and talking to the designers.
[2021-09-13T15:35:56.441Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:36:14.599Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2021-09-13T15:36:27.732Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-09-13T15:36:31.301Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-09-13T15:36:40.542Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1),
[2021-09-13T15:36:47.698Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-09-13T15:39:01.561Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:39:17.458Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Linked data rendering  - assuming you mean and cue of the context of the schema to render them.  "Yes"  They weren't sure if a bulleted list of fields has value over debugging list in raw JSON. There are usability problems with this. There universal mechanism for displaying such field is not settled. Opened to the conversation.
[2021-09-13T15:40:18.633Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Goal to get get credential on the student's mobile. Requesting the issuing institution to issue that credential. Need to authenticate the student to the issuer, and let the issuer know the DID the credential should be issued to.   Combining OpenID connect, SAML, Shib, etct.
[2021-09-13T15:40:47.347Z]	<AnthonyFCamilleri>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:40:51.863Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Combining DID authentication and OpenID Connect flows to the issuer to allow issuer to authenticate on the back and have DIDkey or DIDweb used.
[2021-09-13T15:40:56.842Z]	<James_Chartrand>	present+
[2021-09-13T15:41:31.533Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	A number of security and phishing concerns around deep links.  The second gen of deep links are bound to a particular app.
[2021-09-13T15:42:17.806Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Have the either register a custom protocol handler (what happens when the use doesn't have the proper app installed?) No definition for what happens when a protocol is undefined.
[2021-09-13T15:42:52.962Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	SIOP  working group has mentioned this problem of phishing.  Community is aware of this trying to address it.
[2021-09-13T15:43:18.473Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-09-13T15:44:07.180Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Are looking at universal link deep links, a regular URL with a request, each domain can be linked to only a particular app. The user experience is much better, but the OS on a mobile device guides the user to download the app, but that's not really representative of a universal interoperability approach.
[2021-09-13T15:44:20.326Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-09-13T15:45:23.152Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	The student receives a deep link via interacting with Canvas, email or QR code. The scan it and the deep link contains the universal protocol required, who the issuer is (open metadata to start the communication protocol) an invokes the trust framework required.
[2021-09-13T15:46:30.682Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	What's the name of the API endpoint to receive the credential. Deep link contains a couple of fields and starts off the communication flow, the credential request to the issuer, the issuer returns the assigned credential with validation typical of VCs in general.
[2021-09-13T15:46:59.655Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-09-13T15:47:03.039Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:47:29.222Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Issuer must know who the student is, what credential to issue, &  needs both DID auth and identity of the user from the enterprise's perspective.
[2021-09-13T15:47:29.480Z]	<Nate_Otto>	The deep link approach sounds like a good plan.
[2021-09-13T15:47:45.016Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	https://github.com/digitalcredentials/docs/blob/main/request/credential_request.md
[2021-09-13T15:48:15.388Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:48:31.570Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:48:45.057Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	the deep link process verifies the learner, sends a verification token, the wallet sends back the bearer token and the DID, get the institution to issue the credential.
[2021-09-13T15:49:01.639Z]	<David_Ward>	q+ Custodians
[2021-09-13T15:49:03.631Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	For learners DIDkey and for issuers DIDkey will be used initially,
[2021-09-13T15:49:19.763Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Kerr_Lemoie
[2021-09-13T15:49:24.042Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	For DIDkey if the learner loses the key they have to ask for a reissuance.
[2021-09-13T15:49:29.202Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Kerri_Lemoie
[2021-09-13T15:49:32.546Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:49:55.891Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Custodians
[2021-09-13T15:49:59.506Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	the syntax is 'q+ to <topic>'
[2021-09-13T15:50:02.494Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:50:10.810Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Has any thought been given if a custodian is trying to get the credentials?
[2021-09-13T15:50:45.882Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:50:47.042Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	This is a custodial use case, it's the parent or custodian who is requesting the authentication and that custodian is putting in the student's DID
[2021-09-13T15:51:06.827Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-09-13T15:51:43.289Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Can you walk through what it looks like for a relying party to connect to the wallet? What would happen if the system wanted to verify the credential?
[2021-09-13T15:51:50.311Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Kerri_Lemoie
[2021-09-13T15:51:53.089Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:52:05.697Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	How 3rd party relying parties can request things from the wallet is a larger conversation
[2021-09-13T15:52:53.785Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:53:03.764Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Targeting a primitive universal layer for the initial phase.  They are looking at the verifiable presentation request spec and looking to have an automated out of band way for 3rd parties to request a credential from a wallet.
[2021-09-13T15:53:17.737Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:53:19.969Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	q+
[2021-09-13T15:53:25.484Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	That's for the formal presentation
[2021-09-13T15:53:40.373Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Matt_Lisle
[2021-09-13T15:53:41.232Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	That's it for the formal presentation.
[2021-09-13T15:54:05.246Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:54:09.964Z]	<Phil_Barker>	q+
[2021-09-13T15:54:17.026Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	The cred wallet repo link initially in the text chat is not the right link and the link will be shared when the wallet is released in a couple of weeks.
[2021-09-13T15:54:20.222Z]	<Nate_Otto>	Interested to work with Georgia Tech to implement that last flow so that users can present their credentials to relying parties from the wallet so developers can do stuff with them.
[2021-09-13T15:54:21.888Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_Barker
[2021-09-13T15:54:33.733Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-13T15:55:02.149Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Interested in producing an MVP but does the project extend beyond that?  Dimitri beleives that is the case but the current funding is for the MVP. Leadership of DCC needs to address on-going work.
[2021-09-13T15:55:18.368Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Thanks to Dimitri for presenting this!
[2021-09-13T15:55:18.368Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> To stay updated on the DCC Learner Wallet keep an eye on the CCG mailing list and/or follow the https://github.com/digitalcredentials/docs repo
[2021-09-13T15:55:26.327Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	That's it for today
[2021-09-13T15:55:29.102Z]	<Phil_Barker>	thank you
[2021-09-13T15:55:29.354Z]	<George_Artem>	thanks all
[2021-09-13T15:55:30.221Z]	<Nate_Otto>	Thanks!
