[2023-01-03T18:30:51.727Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-01-03T18:30:53.178Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-01-03T18:30:53.426Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	present+
[2023-01-03T18:31:54.389Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	present+
[2023-01-03T18:32:09.443Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-01-03T18:32:41.019Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-01-03T18:34:08.777Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-01-03T18:34:14.357Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2023-01-03T18:34:35.923Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe+
[2023-01-03T18:34:36.187Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-01-03T18:34:36.187Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-01-03T18:35:04.999Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: happy new year everyone, and welcome back to the trace-call standing meeting
[2023-01-03T18:35:13.708Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md
[2023-01-03T18:35:14.238Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: remember to sign the contributor guidelines
[2023-01-03T18:35:37.254Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: today is vocab day, we do have a bunch of pull requests on trace
[2023-01-03T18:35:37.977Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2023-01-03T18:35:47.818Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/670
[2023-01-03T18:36:08.783Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: this is from adam who is not on the call
[2023-01-03T18:36:49.500Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Miss was aligning examples with schemas or intention was to cover 100 percent over the required fields in the example and there's two ways to do that you delete the schema fields that are not there or you add fields to the example I believe he did the wrong one first according to us wrong one and that the request was to do the other one instead.
[2023-01-03T18:37:10.618Z]	<Transcriber>	Ben_-_Transmute: Also this do you want to turn off it looks like we just got transcribed.
[2023-01-03T18:37:36.338Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I'll go ahead and merge is there are no objections
[2023-01-03T18:37:39.388Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/671
[2023-01-03T18:37:44.106Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: next one is from Russel
[2023-01-03T18:38:51.750Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Chris: I can't say that I've familiar with what happened here, but it looks like it aligns with work he;'s done previously
[2023-01-03T18:39:02.700Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Okay, I'll go ahead and merge
[2023-01-03T18:39:08.091Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/672
[2023-01-03T18:39:56.814Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is a similar pull request, and adding fields to agriculture product as well as an import application
[2023-01-03T18:40:21.309Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/673
[2023-01-03T18:40:53.166Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Next one is 673, this an update to mill test report by adding inspectors to align the example with schema.
[2023-01-03T18:41:22.982Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Any objections to merging out of meeting once the merge conflict has been addressed?
[2023-01-03T18:41:34.402Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I'll write a note on the pull request page to that effect.
[2023-01-03T18:41:53.568Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/675
[2023-01-03T18:42:46.152Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is a gtin8 which is the short form of gtins. this is a credential from a gs1 member about a product. which is an example from vc-data-model from GS1.
[2023-01-03T18:43:08.443Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: is there any objections to me merging offline once this get's fixed
[2023-01-03T18:43:09.400Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2023Jan/0000.html
[2023-01-03T18:43:29.752Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Sounds good to me, i can remove the change request on the assumption it's going to get fixed
[2023-01-03T18:43:48.810Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Paul: Looking file 103 in the file change, that looks like a prefix and not a gtin8
[2023-01-03T18:44:06.578Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: It is a prefix example, these are taken from the gs1 data model
[2023-01-03T18:44:15.737Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Paul: i'll follow up offline
[2023-01-03T18:44:21.090Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/676
[2023-01-03T18:45:17.063Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is narrowing down some of the files to not use the generic organization that only uses the parts related to this credential. As well as place. We have three approvals, any objects to merging 676?
[2023-01-03T18:45:30.710Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: There is a conflict, I'll make a note to merge offline once resolved
[2023-01-03T18:45:43.733Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/677
[2023-01-03T18:46:30.539Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is from fkim7 to upload bank account vc. There are a few good looking updates. We have three approvals. Any objections to merging 677?
[2023-01-03T18:46:53.022Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/678
[2023-01-03T18:47:32.619Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is for the GS1 key credential which is issued to claim that you have made a GTIN, another example from the GS1 data model. I only see one approval, can we get more?
[2023-01-03T18:47:50.490Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Or if anyone wants to discuss what this is about, I'd be happy to talk about it.
[2023-01-03T18:48:13.462Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: Can you do a quick walk-through?
[2023-01-03T18:48:55.988Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: The GS1 data model has the end of the line. It starts from GS1 global to regional, and they can issue credentials directly, or the local office issued prefix licenses to companies. Once you have a prefix license you can issue key credentials.
[2023-01-03T18:49:23.146Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is at the end of the line where you issue a credential to something  being identified.
[2023-01-03T18:49:28.427Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I hope that helps.
[2023-01-03T18:49:33.959Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: It does, thanks.
[2023-01-03T18:49:34.434Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/679
[2023-01-03T18:50:52.111Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is removing geo-coordinates from the bill of lading. We have strong push back from the industry that they didn't have the data for the parties. so this is removing it from the document to align closer with the industry use.
[2023-01-03T18:50:54.727Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/680
[2023-01-03T18:51:41.448Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This is adding cargo description, because i was doing the bill of lading, and this was an issue we have around for a while. And I used the term "particulars" as it's the most common term for this on bills of lading.
[2023-01-03T18:52:05.665Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: If there are no objections i will leave a comment to myself to merge offline once merge conflict has been addressed
[2023-01-03T18:52:20.356Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We have four pending pull requests and we are through the entire list.
[2023-01-03T18:52:27.271Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2023-01-03T18:52:46.906Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-01-03T18:52:54.405Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: For trace-interop we have no pull requests, so let's go back to trace-vocab and let's look at issues
[2023-01-03T18:53:20.993Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/461
[2023-01-03T18:53:30.911Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: The first one is 461 from Orie
[2023-01-03T18:54:40.141Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: We had conversations about whether raw materials could be traced, and we dont really have certificated related to this mine produces this material that makes it into mined products. The MTR is the first credential that we have around raw materials. So could we have credentials for a raw ore extracted from a mine?
[2023-01-03T18:55:44.351Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: We can use existing terms such as inchikey to represent minerals, but we don't have any certificates where minerals start,. even to the point of going to twitter and asking for help around credentials for raw materials.
[2023-01-03T18:56:46.968Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Let's go ahead and add a "Help Wanted" tag on the issue
[2023-01-03T18:56:47.591Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/548
[2023-01-03T18:57:11.150Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: " hashlink is no substitute for proper semantic description of content"
[2023-01-03T18:57:13.359Z]	<TallTed>	"point of extraction" doc will be good for efforts against things like "conflict diamonds"
[2023-01-03T18:57:17.569Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Yes, I agree with this
[2023-01-03T18:57:50.808Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: It's about a specific type, commission event to see if it's still as described.
[2023-01-03T18:57:57.493Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: and it still has hashlink on it
[2023-01-03T18:58:41.882Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: the proposal is to change this to a definition of products
[2023-01-03T18:59:02.003Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: it seems like APCIS has a definition we could be using, maybe that could be a better starting point?
[2023-01-03T18:59:54.379Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/562
[2023-01-03T19:00:13.943Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Next is cosmetics on EPCIS
[2023-01-03T19:00:39.761Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Why is this being debated on trace? Should this be on GS1 EPCIS repo?
[2023-01-03T19:00:47.659Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Or am I missing something?
[2023-01-03T19:01:42.639Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I included a link to an example in a previous issue
[2023-01-03T19:02:19.027Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: It is a difficult issue to parse, if there is something useful in their repo, we reference it here.
[2023-01-03T19:02:30.782Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I'll ask a question to clarify this in the issue
[2023-01-03T19:02:30.963Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/564
[2023-01-03T19:02:51.831Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis:  Product defects: ids (how to represent an individual product), quantities
[2023-01-03T19:03:20.001Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Mahmoud I see you commented on this, can you introduce this if you remember?
[2023-01-03T19:03:49.286Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: This does related to the key credential we did, and since we debated this the GS1 white paper came out
[2023-01-03T19:04:11.691Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: I think part of this was there was confusion between product id or gtin in the product schema
[2023-01-03T19:04:53.847Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Mahmoud: One of the reasons was because some of the products we have doesn't have a GTIN, for example things like order. There were other places where batch could be used in the location of GTIN.
[2023-01-03T19:05:36.976Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I'm pretty sure schema.org makes this distinction. I assume Vlad would know that better than me. Can we assign you (Mahmoud) and me to this issue?
[2023-01-03T19:05:53.764Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/561
[2023-01-03T19:06:47.096Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I made a pull request on the EPCIS, but i didn't have time to wrap it up, so i pulled it into an issue. And I've been focusing on the GTIN ones. If anyone is interested please shout-out. Otherwise we'll leave it for when we get a chance.
[2023-01-03T19:07:11.434Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/567
[2023-01-03T19:07:52.443Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/568
[2023-01-03T19:09:03.231Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis:  inconsistently spelled schema.org URLs. This looks out dated. So I think these are all dead. So I think we can safely close this issue.
[2023-01-03T19:09:12.396Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ted: You should probably re-run the command.
[2023-01-03T19:09:28.779Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Agreed I just made a comment to that effect on the issue.
[2023-01-03T19:09:57.204Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I'm going to ping Vlad and assign him on the issue.
[2023-01-03T19:10:17.930Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Anyone with Linux can run the command, so I think you should assign yourself or Ben to this issue
[2023-01-03T19:10:18.860Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/569
[2023-01-03T19:11:57.004Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/570
[2023-01-03T19:12:17.464Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis:  https://w3id.org/identifier does not exist
[2023-01-03T19:12:24.945Z]	<Mahmoud>	unfortunately need to drop
[2023-01-03T19:13:00.172Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I just searched for this in the repo. I don't see it showing up anymore.
[2023-01-03T19:13:17.105Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I don't think it's in the code anymore, oh wait now it's showing up
[2023-01-03T19:13:45.896Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I'm going to assign Mahmoud on this.
[2023-01-03T19:14:28.517Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/572
[2023-01-03T19:15:18.642Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis:  identifier wrongly used as class, this seems like it's align the same lines at what we just looked at. So I'm inclined to assign Russel.
[2023-01-03T19:15:48.370Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/573
[2023-01-03T19:15:55.504Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis:  avoid schema.org datatypes
[2023-01-03T19:16:51.925Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: We love schema.org datatypes. here's not wrong, this date-time issue we've had problems with before. There's also the date-type attributes versus the data-time type. I think this issue conflates those two. Because it mixes the type and property
[2023-01-03T19:17:32.981Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: In order to make this ticket actionable, we should re-run the command, and then we make an issue for every instance. So that we have a lot of smaller issues that are easier to close out
[2023-01-03T19:17:54.647Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: unless someone want to pick up a big issue.
[2023-01-03T19:18:14.675Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/574
[2023-01-03T19:18:21.696Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Ben, can you run the command and make an issue, and then address the instances in the schemas's we maintain.
[2023-01-03T19:18:25.916Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: got it
[2023-01-03T19:18:47.991Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: these grep attacks Vlad is running on us is good.
[2023-01-03T19:19:01.822Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Same kind of deal, we need to update all of the cases where that's showing up
[2023-01-03T19:19:14.783Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Do we want to slice it up the same way?
[2023-01-03T19:20:28.662Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I don't know what the relative priority is for this. If there are any of these IRI's showing up. I want to see separate issues for Transmute to address these issues for credentials we're interested in.
[2023-01-03T19:21:18.885Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: As a related point, every time these url's are wrong we're breaking the ability to query over the data. And this is an objective of the traceability vocabulary.
[2023-01-03T19:22:05.734Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: For now I'll assign myself, Mahmoud and Russel and ideally we'll split it up.
[2023-01-03T19:22:20.237Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/576
[2023-01-03T19:22:33.648Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis:  declare datatype in $linkedData
[2023-01-03T19:23:16.563Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: the problem with this is that it applies to everything
[2023-01-03T19:23:43.966Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I have some experience to changing JSON-LD to property graphs, if you have different types when you change to n-quads.
[2023-01-03T19:25:13.740Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I do think there is a strong argument that all of the data types and IRI's should be correct for everything. This doesn't work well when there is one issue to say "fix everything" versus smaller issues for breaking down specific tasks that can be visualized and crossed off. Similar to our undefined terms graph that let's us know there is still work to be done.
[2023-01-03T19:26:29.347Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Vlad has good suggestions in, I'm not sure how to address this at the moment, but this does seem like a high value issue to invest some time in.
[2023-01-03T19:26:40.918Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: What is the next step?
[2023-01-03T19:27:44.865Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: You could do this on a credential with manual review, there is nothing that's going to say this should be a boolean versus a string. But if you look at the n-quads and you see a boolean, but the type is a string you would know that's wrong.
[2023-01-03T19:28:24.301Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: So the way to address this would be a line-by-line review of the n-quads to make sure each line gets checked off.
[2023-01-03T19:28:35.741Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: Effectively it could be done with an issue per line.
[2023-01-03T19:29:06.181Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ted: I think that rather than having an issue per issue, it could be done with one issue with checkboxes.
[2023-01-03T19:29:34.206Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: It might be possible to do a CLI that automatically creates an issue, but it's not something you might want to do.
[2023-01-03T19:30:21.454Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I'll self assign, and do one as a proof of concept. To say "this is a credential that is well defined, and this is what we want the other credentials to look like".
[2023-01-03T19:30:27.439Z]	<Orie>	sry, I will need to drop
[2023-01-03T19:31:41.094Z]	<nis>	present+
