[2020-08-24T14:58:55.061Z]	<victorgolubkov>	Good morning!
[2020-08-24T14:58:59.112Z]	<by_caballero>	now we're curious what the F stands for
[2020-08-24T14:59:10.505Z]	<by_caballero>	good evening from Berlin!
[2020-08-24T14:59:24.476Z]	<anthonycamilleri>	haha - Fisher. I just didn't like all the underscores
[2020-08-24T15:00:24.211Z]	<kimhd>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Aug/0095.html
[2020-08-24T15:00:29.550Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Aug/0095.html
[2020-08-24T15:01:10.023Z]	<stuartf>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:01:23.028Z]	<lauraj>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:01:32.986Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-08-24T15:01:40.649Z]	<JamesChartrand>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:01:54.970Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-08-24T15:02:09.796Z]	<anthonycamilleri>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:02:10.929Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-08-24T15:02:15.186Z]	<Jacksohne>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:02:17.050Z]	<jimgoodell>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:02:58.123Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:03:06.242Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:03:06.562Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Aug/0095.html
[2020-08-24T15:03:29.203Z]	<chriswinc>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:03:32.403Z]	<tzviya>	present+ Tzviya_Siegman
[2020-08-24T15:03:43.983Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:04:49.904Z]	<JimKelly>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:04:53.047Z]	<kimhd>	kimhd: says something
[2020-08-24T15:05:36.443Z]	<kimhd>	Scribe: lauraj
[2020-08-24T15:06:02.032Z]	<dward>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:06:32.246Z]	<anthonycamilleri>	I always thought the text summaries were bot-written.... :$ ... will volunteer for scribe next time
[2020-08-24T15:07:17.059Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-24T15:07:39.059Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2020-08-24T15:08:20.073Z]	<victorgolubkov>	Hello, all. I
[2020-08-24T15:08:21.029Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:08:56.304Z]	<kimhd>	philbarker
[2020-08-24T15:09:33.396Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ONiXL_1GvEd6EBiosH50mt5rw-GVySywVwFBQ2lCgzE/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-08-24T15:09:37.788Z]	<victorgolubkov>	Hello. I'm having problmes with Linphone. I'm a member of Trust Over IP Internet of Education Task Force. I'll join chat for now
[2020-08-24T15:09:39.011Z]	<lauraj>	kimhd: moving on to universal wallet
[2020-08-24T15:09:47.049Z]	<adamjlemmon>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:10:00.678Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Universal Wallet
[2020-08-24T15:12:17.844Z]	<lauraj>	kimhd: universal wallet proposes a data model interface (api) -- experimental implementation
[2020-08-24T15:12:24.913Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
[2020-08-24T15:12:57.638Z]	<lauraj>	...advantages: covered by w3c license agreement;
[2020-08-24T15:13:16.784Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-24T15:14:42.389Z]	<lauraj>	orie: +1 to experimental implementation -- title should include interop and experimental as it is transitioned to the w3c
[2020-08-24T15:16:04.707Z]	<lauraj>	kimhd: wallet is like an SDK or api -- doesn't have to be used; can be applied to multiple use cases and interoperability
[2020-08-24T15:16:28.226Z]	<lauraj>	...can use spec without opensource implementation
[2020-08-24T15:16:43.785Z]	<lauraj>	...ip protected as well
[2020-08-24T15:17:16.664Z]	<Orie>	Yes, we probably should have named the spec, "Universal-Wallet-Interop-Spec" and the sample implementation "Experimental Universal Wallet Implementation", even if the software package does not contain the word "experimental".
[2020-08-24T15:17:17.885Z]	<lauraj>	...common for proposals to be discussed in DIF and IEEE
[2020-08-24T15:20:22.170Z]	<lauraj>	...credential exchange spec is in draft
[2020-08-24T15:20:40.127Z]	<lauraj>	...secure data store relevant to wallet storage
[2020-08-24T15:21:47.984Z]	<lauraj>	...Learning economy major contributor and open wallet architecture
[2020-08-24T15:22:50.215Z]	<lauraj>	Jacksohne: speaking
[2020-08-24T15:23:38.188Z]	<lauraj>	...Learning economy building universal wallet out of necessity for interacting with partners
[2020-08-24T15:24:40.339Z]	<Orie>	Some more "experimental ui for the experimental wallet" here: https://material-did.com/?path=/story/universal-wallet-wallet-cards--unlocked :)
[2020-08-24T15:25:06.715Z]	<lauraj>	kimhd:need code owner -- will be Nathan and T?...
[2020-08-24T15:26:00.670Z]	<by_caballero>	i am here
[2020-08-24T15:26:08.255Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-24T15:26:11.276Z]	<by_caballero>	agenda is here
[2020-08-24T15:26:12.084Z]	<by_caballero>	https://github.com/decentralized-identity/interoperability/blob/master/agenda.md
[2020-08-24T15:26:13.548Z]	<lauraj>	...get involved via ccg, github, etc.  Also get involved in DIF; send questions to Kim
[2020-08-24T15:26:25.244Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2020-08-24T15:26:31.791Z]	<by_caballero>	if anyone wants to propose an agenda item for a future DIF interop meeting or email me directly at communication at identity.foundation about it
[2020-08-24T15:26:32.566Z]	<agropper>	What makes this a "learner" wallet?
[2020-08-24T15:26:33.246Z]	<kimhd>	ack Orie
[2020-08-24T15:27:02.958Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-08-24T15:27:47.076Z]	<kimhd>	add yourself to the queue if you have strong objections to adding experimental implementation
[2020-08-24T15:27:52.085Z]	<lauraj>	orie: asking about implementing a software implementation along side the spec?  Should we move Transmute code to CCG?
[2020-08-24T15:28:28.985Z]	<lauraj>	kimhd: speak up if you have concerns
[2020-08-24T15:29:04.418Z]	<lauraj>	...kim is supportive of experimental implementation -- very helpful to demonstrate POC;
[2020-08-24T15:29:27.466Z]	<lauraj>	...experimental implementation doesn't have to be used...
[2020-08-24T15:29:56.145Z]	<agropper>	q+ to ask What makes this a "learner" wallet vs. "universal" wallet?
[2020-08-24T15:30:17.451Z]	<lauraj>	...we want open source and open implementation available to all learners
[2020-08-24T15:30:59.570Z]	<lauraj>	...not tied to a specific wallet vendor; interacts with many identity proof mechanisms
[2020-08-24T15:31:02.875Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-08-24T15:31:05.926Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-24T15:31:14.234Z]	<kimhd>	ack agropper
[2020-08-24T15:31:29.817Z]	<Orie>	agropper: I imagine a learner wallet is a customized version of a wallet that supports the "universal-wallet-interop-spec", which MAY use the "experimental-universal-wallet"
[2020-08-24T15:31:44.257Z]	<Orie>	q+ to reply to agropper
[2020-08-24T15:31:49.145Z]	<lauraj>	agropper: question -- what makes this a learner wallet vs. just a wallet
[2020-08-24T15:32:38.389Z]	<kimhd>	ack Orie
[2020-08-24T15:32:42.330Z]	<lauraj>	kimhd: learning wallet a certain kind of universal wallet -- themed in different ways specific to learners
[2020-08-24T15:33:46.408Z]	<lauraj>	orrie:types of industry specific wallets are conformant with standard but support open interop standards?
[2020-08-24T15:34:16.939Z]	<lauraj>	agropper: will there be anything different than the data model between patient walled and universal wallet?
[2020-08-24T15:34:38.034Z]	<kimhd>	q+
[2020-08-24T15:34:52.805Z]	<lauraj>	orrie: speculating about differences...
[2020-08-24T15:35:51.066Z]	<lauraj>	kimhd: interesting that this has a data model and interoperable library / interface
[2020-08-24T15:36:23.832Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-24T15:36:26.409Z]	<kimhd>	ack kimhd
[2020-08-24T15:36:30.529Z]	<lauraj>	...in addition differing credentials ...
[2020-08-24T15:36:31.168Z]	<Orie>	I consider defining abstract interfaces data model work :) but thats just my personal opinion. there have been concerns raised about the "interfaces" and if they can be generic enough to be supportive of all formats
[2020-08-24T15:37:08.893Z]	<lauraj>	kimhd: modeling verifiable credentials next
[2020-08-24T15:37:17.287Z]	<ScottGallant>	Thank you. dropping for remainder.
[2020-08-24T15:37:31.090Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pt-VNnjoYgl23Mlu0Tjyax5RgANPBfDijERz0SNYfSo/edit?ts=5f387d19#heading=h.2fde5vhrnfjo
[2020-08-24T15:37:36.604Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Modeling Educational VCs
[2020-08-24T15:37:52.824Z]	<Victoria_xdemic>	sry my line is keep dropping
[2020-08-24T15:38:38.806Z]	<lauraj>	kimhd: document has several working examples; action items moved to a specific section
[2020-08-24T15:39:18.385Z]	<lauraj>	...action item-- support xml serialization focus
[2020-08-24T15:39:46.917Z]	<Orie>	interested to see the XML serialization of VCs added to the W3C VC Data Model.
[2020-08-24T15:39:50.284Z]	<lauraj>	...json too
[2020-08-24T15:40:14.055Z]	<lauraj>	..."has achieved" is being adopted
[2020-08-24T15:40:43.739Z]	<lauraj>	...better for broader types of achievements
[2020-08-24T15:41:10.525Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-24T15:41:13.492Z]	<lauraj>	...use of pdf's for the wrapper?  follow up work item...
[2020-08-24T15:41:42.154Z]	<Orie>	I have done experiments embedding stuff in PDFs... CBOR-LD can help.
[2020-08-24T15:42:01.985Z]	<lauraj>	...issues in document -- working example 1
[2020-08-24T15:42:04.649Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pt-VNnjoYgl23Mlu0Tjyax5RgANPBfDijERz0SNYfSo/edit?ts=5f387d19#heading=h.wszlu0mk5nza
[2020-08-24T15:43:20.237Z]	<lauraj>	...ILR wrapper is referring to criteria in alignment framework --
[2020-08-24T15:44:18.886Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ on ctid
[2020-08-24T15:44:19.355Z]	<lauraj>	...ctid supports versioning -- is advantage
[2020-08-24T15:44:33.945Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-08-24T15:44:45.665Z]	<Orie>	q+ to ask about ctid vs credential id
[2020-08-24T15:45:44.906Z]	<Orie>	we should consider cannonical URLs for credential Ids, that support CTID, but also other formats
[2020-08-24T15:46:15.566Z]	<lauraj>	ottonomy: ctid = CT id, that's been assigned by a specific registry provider (CER). It serves as an identiifer or alternate identifier for a credential. It is possible to use the ctid to get information about the credential but ctid itself is just a uuid. It's great metadata to have for any ecosystem referencing credentials in the CER, but I don't think it serves all of the functions that you were mentioning in terms of versioning (i.e. 2 different versions of the same credential in the CER would have the same CTID). How I would think of it is a property on an achievement description (credential def) that is an alternate id for a credential with a specific registry.
[2020-08-24T15:46:26.558Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	+1 to Orie and Nate
[2020-08-24T15:46:30.327Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-24T15:46:33.033Z]	<kimhd>	ack Orie
[2020-08-24T15:46:51.977Z]	<tzviya>	q+ to ask more about versioning
[2020-08-24T15:47:23.677Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-24T15:47:30.446Z]	<Phil-T3>	+1 for Orie's suggestion
[2020-08-24T15:47:31.339Z]	<lauraj>	orie: it sounds like CTID is in the category of randomly, globally unique ID, and I would suggest that for purposes of consolidating the data model we consider a canonical URL representation for identifiers that support identifiers like ctid as argument but also extensible to support others
[2020-08-24T15:47:31.993Z]	<ottonomy>	+1 to Orie's proposal: It is nice to have a canonical URL identifier that when fetched can reveal more information about the credential definition that is the canonical representation of the credential.
[2020-08-24T15:47:39.787Z]	<kimhd>	ack tzviya
[2020-08-24T15:48:21.856Z]	<lauraj>	tzviya: agrees with Orie about keeping it separate
[2020-08-24T15:48:25.158Z]	<ottonomy>	(I could describe OB's approach to version identification if somebody wants to q me for it https://openbadgespec.org/#version )
[2020-08-24T15:48:57.899Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-24T15:49:05.205Z]	<anthonycamilleri>	we have quite a bit we would like to contribute to this discussion. the appropriate thing is to just comment the doc extensively?
[2020-08-24T15:49:54.885Z]	<lauraj>	ottonomy: open badges use description -- does not need to know about versioning but needs badge class
[2020-08-24T15:50:18.211Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-24T15:50:51.215Z]	<philbarker>	on "resource" in ctid: Credential Engine uses ctids on Learning Opportunities and Assessments as well as Credentials
[2020-08-24T15:51:01.516Z]	<lauraj>	...url badge class can be the latest version or defined
[2020-08-24T15:51:24.152Z]	<lauraj>	...version can define the type of credential
[2020-08-24T15:51:46.130Z]	<Orie>	yep, big +1 to being careful about forcing folks to worry about versioning if they don't need to.
[2020-08-24T15:51:52.425Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-24T15:52:17.398Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to ask about namespace for hasAchieved if you have time
[2020-08-24T15:52:42.815Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-08-24T15:53:07.765Z]	<lauraj>	ottonomy: where are we at with vocabulary "has achieved"?
[2020-08-24T15:53:12.297Z]	<Orie>	schema.org will take PRs :)
[2020-08-24T15:53:48.853Z]	<lauraj>	kimhd: ccg can be temporary landing place
[2020-08-24T15:54:11.809Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-08-24T15:54:16.631Z]	<tzviya>	q+
[2020-08-24T15:54:17.051Z]	<lauraj>	...could also be schema.org
[2020-08-24T15:54:24.324Z]	<philbarker>	Is this relevant https://schema.org/hasCredential
[2020-08-24T15:54:30.817Z]	<Orie>	schema.org has the benefit of helping align with SEO, which might be favorable, for reputation driving credentials
[2020-08-24T15:54:38.148Z]	<kimhd>	ack tzviya
[2020-08-24T15:55:07.797Z]	<Orie>	yep, +1 to bucketing  in CCG and preparing to register a batch to schema.org
[2020-08-24T15:55:11.932Z]	<lauraj>	tzviya: if more than one term in shema.org we should batch terms...
[2020-08-24T15:55:19.874Z]	<anthonycamilleri>	not sure the super-personal data in credentials necessarily aligns with schema.org public data prinicples....
[2020-08-24T15:55:20.145Z]	<by_caballero>	thx all!
[2020-08-24T16:07:36.642Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: connections?
[2020-08-24T16:07:49.399Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: disconnect 12c4
[2020-08-24T16:07:52.522Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: disconnect 12de
[2020-08-24T16:07:56.554Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: disconnect 12e3
[2020-08-24T16:07:58.418Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: disconnect 12e6
[2020-08-24T16:08:00.093Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: disconnect 12e9
