Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and russell_h_(mesur.io) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-11-07-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-11-07-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-11-07

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Nov&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and russell_h_(mesur.io)
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Benjamin Collins, Russell H (mesur.io), Chris 
  Abernethy, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), 
  Ted Thibodeau

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Benjamin Collins:  Let's see the ya subtitles.
Benjamin Collins:  Like transcribers in the meeting.
Benjamin Collins:  Well what is it about like your your computer 
  or your setup that like is.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): Yeah really just excluding.
Benjamin Collins:  Yeah let's see.
Russell_H_(mesur.io): Yeah I can I can scribe.
Benjamin Collins:  Let's Ness go ahead kick stop the subtitles 
  and let's let Russell scribe.
russell_h_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/895
Nis Jespersen :  Diving in
Nis Jespersen :  Replaced scheme.org/value with more specific 
  alternatives
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/896
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/897
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/898
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
Nis Jespersen :  Objections to merging 895? merging
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/595
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/605
Nis Jespersen :  Interop, starting at bottom, 595, one of mine. 
  Feedback from gs1, what I was wanting. Just going to leave a 
  comment, will act on soon
<tallted> `application/vc+ld+json+sd-jwt` shouldn't exist
Ted Thibodeau:  Issue with this. media type there. problem here, 
  multiple plus is moving target still, ietf very slow. ppl who 
  have been working on it have been inconsistent in understanding 
  how media types work. Traditionally it allowed multiple "+" but 
  inconsistently implemented. "vc+ld+json" sure, but "sd-jwt" is 
  its own thing, which might contain vc+ld+json, or another thing. 
  But its a contain thing similar to a zip. Unfortunately ppl 
  focused on this, have forgotten that. Thinking abt new stuff 
  designing, not looking back on how spec'd already. Not treating 
  sd-jwt which is similar to zip, as if it were a zip
<tallted> it should be just `application/sd-jwt` from which an 
  `application/vc+ld+json` can be extracted
Nis Jespersen :  What would happen if we left it in?
Ted Thibodeau:  Unsure. think it's a bad path to go down multiple 
  "+" signs ok, sure. Problem is this sequence of "sd-jwt" after 
  "json"
Chris Abernethy:  Good pts ted, something in meantime to address 
  this while that moves fwd? cause purpose here is to signal what 
  sort of response is expected
Ted Thibodeau:  That may be, but, wrong media type shouldn't be 
  used to signal that. If ask for sd-jwt, that'll always contain 
  json. May not always contain vc-json. Unsure how to get down that 
  road.
Benjamin Collins:  Vc+sd-jwt?
Ted Thibodeau:  Still like "vc+zip", not how supposed to be done
Chris Abernethy:  How word that we're waiting for proper content 
  types? or accept header wrong way to do this?
Ted Thibodeau:  Accept header wrong place to say what want. Sure 
  say "sd-jwt", but what you want to be inside it is
Nis Jespersen :  Just application/sd-jwt?
Ted Thibodeau:  Think that's ok
Chris Abernethy:  Ok with that. use application/sd-jwt for now, 
  might change
Ted Thibodeau:  Suggest changing this media type anywhere it 
  exists
Chris Abernethy:  Is sd-jwt in use currently?
Ted Thibodeau: 
  https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-selective-disclosure-jwt/
Ted Thibodeau:  Appears its in use in another ietf draft
Chris Abernethy:  Think it makes sense to use that
Nis Jespersen :  Leave a comment ted? so that can be referenced
Ted Thibodeau:  Will put in a comment, not rn but today
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/606
Nis Jespersen :  Revisit next week
Nis Jespersen :  This makes it so vc-api implementations will 
  need to return 400 if accept header not present. Will break 
  tests.
Nis Jespersen :  Underscores that we need to settle the 
  media-type thing, first
Nis Jespersen :  Are we in agreement for apis demanding accept 
  header?
Chris Abernethy:  Update spec with informative language (respec)
Chris Abernethy:  *Normative
Nis Jespersen :  What do we do with this?
Chris Abernethy:  Leave comment
Nis Jespersen :  Give another week to brew
Nis Jespersen :  So do we want apis to demand accept header?
Chris Abernethy:  Unsure if we want to require? but either we 
  require and add normative, or optional and informative
Nis Jespersen :  So PR is blocked by discussion that needs to 
  happen?
Nis Jespersen :  Made a comment - dependent on 606, and that if 
  we merge we'll need an issue to add to respec
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/607
Nis Jespersen :  Interesting discussions, thank you Russell
Chris Abernethy:  Grabbed this off mahmoud's plate. vc-jws-2020 
  has been withdrawn, this removes references.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/608
Nis Jespersen :  608, Chris?
Chris Abernethy:  Adds links to respec doc so users can find 
  tutorials on importing and running postman interop and 
  conformance testing suites
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/897
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/832
Nis Jespersen :  More approvals?
Ted Thibodeau:  Seems likely all this needs, intenttoimport must 
  ref shipment that contains these details.
Nis Jespersen :  That's the workflow instance that binds these 
  together
Ted Thibodeau:  So that needs to be made clear.
Benjamin Collins:  Think original intention was to specify scope 
  of the import. Is thing being imported exactly what's on invoice? 
  subset? set of products with multiple invoices in shipment? how 
  do we define scope of which products are being associated with 
  import issue.
Nis Jespersen :  Can of worms. Each doc has varying degree of 
  details. [...] big deal, this is not easy, this list doesn't seem 
  to capture these complexities.
Benjamin Collins:  This is domain expertise I don't have a sense 
  of. Say you're importing two things of lumber, do you do two of 
  these?
Nis Jespersen :  All of that reflected in bill, any other doc 
  that might be specific to the import type
Nis Jespersen :  Mill test report for steel,, even further detail 
  specific to steel.
Benjamin Collins:  Mike is focused on product and details abt 
  product will be defined in other docs, orthogonal to q of how 
  scope defined though. I think need to make that clear.
Nis Jespersen :  Final parting thought, every time we change biz 
  process, we ask 100M ppl to comply with it. Big deal, rly want to 
  avoid it.
Benjamin Collins:  Intention here is to align with right biz 
  process.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/587
Nis Jespersen :  Will try and leave comment on that
Chris Abernethy:  Initially had Lerna, npm type manager for repos 
  with more than one package, which this is not. this is to see if 
  we can remove Lerna, which we likely can. I'll assign this to 
  myself
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/846
Benjamin Collins:  Took a first stab removed 80% of stuff? But 
  yeah if you take another pass should be able to get rid of 
  everything
Nis Jespersen :  Next 846. We should have linked data terms for 
  chemical compounds. seems ready for PR.
Ted Thibodeau:  844 Specific, 846 generic we should do for 
  everything
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/571
Nis Jespersen :  Are we using chem compounds elsewhere? I think 
  this is done. I think we can close
Ted Thibodeau:  Sample data vlad used is bad, starts with triple 
  turns into quintuplet.
Nis Jespersen :  Pinging mahmoud
Chris Abernethy:  I can do minute uploads
