[2022-05-23T14:19:36.240Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)> chair: Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)
[2022-05-23T14:19:36.240Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)> agenda:https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2022May/0010.html
[2022-05-23T14:19:36.240Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2022-05-23T14:56:43.188Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2022-05-23T14:57:20.156Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2022-05-23T14:58:16.393Z]	<Dr._Mattia_Zago_'96_Monokee>	present+
[2022-05-23T14:59:03.689Z]	<JeffO_Real-IT>	present+
[2022-05-23T14:59:04.853Z]	<Nate_Otto_(he/him)>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:00:12.740Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:01:01.725Z]	<Snorre_-_Diwala>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:01:03.218Z]	<Rebecca_Busacca>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:01:52.113Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:02:32.009Z]	<Jim_Kelly>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:02:37.537Z]	<Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:02:43.224Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:02:50.407Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:02:53.339Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:02:58.472Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:03:04.431Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-05-23T15:03:04.431Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: education
[2022-05-23T15:03:13.130Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): And we are ready to go good morning good afternoon everyone.
[2022-05-23T15:03:28.180Z]	<Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:03:29.245Z]	<Eric_Vinton>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:03:38.218Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): May 23rd and we're having our weekly verifiable credentials for Education task force meeting as always we have one of the co-chair moderating and typically we have focused agenda item as well as some additional Community discussion before we get into that.
[2022-05-23T15:03:38.883Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:03:38.884Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	topic: IP Note
[2022-05-23T15:03:44.038Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Let me go through the IP notes that we have.
[2022-05-23T15:04:16.978Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): So as you know anyone can participate to our calls however to be a contributor to any credentials community group work items you need to be a member of ccg and have a full a PR agreement signed in a member is very easy you just need a w3c account which you can get online and review the contribute to license agreement there the links are provided with the agenda and you should have received it already.
[2022-05-23T15:04:47.592Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:04:47.593Z]	<Harrison_Tang>	topic: Call Notes
[2022-05-23T15:04:47.956Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): The MIT the this the meeting minutes are taken automatically my a bot that were Overlord but we also have an audio recording of everything that is said in the skulls are archived online to queue up speakers you could raise your hand or at q+ to the chat that will put you in the queue and when you're done talking or if you want to remove yourself from the chat.
[2022-05-23T15:04:48.408Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary):  it's q-.
[2022-05-23T15:04:50.918Z]	<Frank>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:04:57.468Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): All right just remember to be brief and concise that we all have time to contribute.
[2022-05-23T15:05:13.313Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:05:13.684Z]	<Identity_Woman>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:05:13.685Z]	<Identity_Woman> topic: Introductions and Reintroductions 
[2022-05-23T15:05:14.450Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): So moving to our usual introduction and reintroduction wondering if there's anyone on the call that want to jump on and introduce themselves or introduce themselves please anyone.
[2022-05-23T15:05:26.865Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): All right I yes.
[2022-05-23T15:05:33.068Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank: I'm trying to see it's Frank here I invited one of my folks Tim are you on time.
[2022-05-23T15:05:52.761Z]	<Transcriber>	Frank: See her okay sorry about that everybody I thought he was on it's one of my Engineers he'll be joining the w3c work so but I don't see him yet okay sorry thank you.
[2022-05-23T15:06:03.256Z]	<Identity_Woman>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:06:03.257Z]	<Identity_Woman>	topic: Announcements and Reminders 
[2022-05-23T15:06:19.882Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): That's something I think there will be time for some discussion and the lovely 15 joints you can see you can introduce himself later thanks for that all right so let's say we go to announcement and reminders well I guess a big reminder from from us the plugfest planning is in full swing we had a kickoff call with the.
[2022-05-23T15:06:20.500Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary):  board Plus.
[2022-05-23T15:06:48.099Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Some of the the recording is already available and there are a number of next steps that you know we're happy to go through eventually I let her down during the call or just host a bit more of a discussion on plugfest outstanding question any other announcements or reminders that anyone has wants to share this is a good time to.
[2022-05-23T15:07:00.905Z]	<Andy_Miller>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:07:00.905Z]	<Andy_Miller>	topic: Main Topic - Community showcase: Diwala
[2022-05-23T15:07:28.546Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): All right you're in on so let's move forward and go into the main topic for today which is a conversation or a chat with snow der city of the Walla one of the work crew members and I guess we invited them to just share what they're working on it the Walla and how the work that you're doing contribute or is referencing stop that we do here so.
[2022-05-23T15:07:28.776Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary):  so very.
[2022-05-23T15:07:39.930Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): To have story join us and I'll just give the floor to you snore right now he won't come off of you and say I and take it away.
[2022-05-23T15:07:54.361Z]	<Taylor_(LEF)>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:07:57.345Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:11:15.340Z]	<Deepak_Kulkarni>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:16:01.738Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q?
[2022-05-23T15:16:21.403Z]	<Nate_Otto_(he/him)>	q+
[2022-05-23T15:16:35.049Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Nate is on the Q thank you.
[2022-05-23T15:16:56.107Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	ack Nate_Otto
[2022-05-23T15:17:03.045Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him): Yeah great question sorry I absolutely agree with you and your your take that this is the what is known to the market and a lot I think a lot of the other players have done similar research as what you've shown there in those screenshots seeing the state of the art for how credentials are presented url-based sharing of a hosted credential is definitely the state of the art and people have maybe been a.
[2022-05-23T15:17:24.771Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q?
[2022-05-23T15:17:35.248Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him): You turn over the Rock and see what's under there and see like what the actual like crust chain is between issuer platform recipient holder and verify her and to be able to actually like do some some work to make that trust chain visible and deliver you X that is a little bit more hardened against various different impersonation attacks that might occur often.
[2022-05-23T15:17:35.502Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him):  and we're relying a lot on the brain.
[2022-05-23T15:17:46.156Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him): At the very top left of the screen that this brand is certifying that the credential that you're looking at is authentic.
[2022-05-23T15:18:40.167Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q+
[2022-05-23T15:18:42.299Z]	<Identity_Woman>	are you working with the Yoma folks?
[2022-05-23T15:19:09.052Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him): Yeah I mean it is worth noting this model is working fine in the market there is not much impersonation that we've been able to detect out there right now but that doesn't mean that once badge has become or and these types of credentials become more accepted for employment and other high-value kind of exchange that we won't see problems like that and attackers spring up.
[2022-05-23T15:19:09.350Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him):  take advantage of that opportunity.
[2022-05-23T15:19:13.212Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q?
[2022-05-23T15:21:31.088Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q-
[2022-05-23T15:22:00.079Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2022-05-23T15:23:11.306Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q?
[2022-05-23T15:23:59.459Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Sr a quick question from Kelly and the chat are you working with Yama Yama project.
[2022-05-23T15:24:13.669Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	s/Yama/Yoma
[2022-05-23T15:24:30.531Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Can you maybe just share quickly you know what your mother has or what it is just for maybe the benefit of everyone very quickly.
[2022-05-23T15:26:18.367Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Thank you for that clarification Demetria has a question for you thank you thank you for for being patient go ahead.
[2022-05-23T15:26:47.457Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: No problem thanks Simoni so first of all snoring I wanted to say thank you so much for coming to the Colin and sharing your work with us this is really interesting and I think you're asking all the right questions about the recitation screen so the DC team digital credentials Consortium at MIT is working on similar flows as well so we're we're coming up against some more questions so the two things I want to.
[2022-05-23T15:26:47.877Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Ask you is.
[2022-05-23T15:26:54.798Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: So in my personal view the.
[2022-05-23T15:27:02.358Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: The crypto the cryptographic chain of Transport that's easy right hour.
[2022-05-23T15:27:11.284Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	ack Dmitri_Zagidulin
[2022-05-23T15:27:24.479Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Establishing the root of trust from the issuer to the credential and whether or not it's a static bragging page or with additional API that allows you to request particular credentials like all of that stuff is easy the hard part in my mind is.
[2022-05-23T15:27:55.197Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: The identity verification right the kyc of both the learner the credential holder and the institution and so my my specific question is have well let's take the easier one of the to the institutional trust the identity verification of the issuer so one of the things that we run into in North America in the United States is that they're generally isn't a single list of accredited.
[2022-05-23T15:27:59.785Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Universities are learning.
[2022-05-23T15:28:32.825Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Establishments so one if we wanted that centralized list it's not that easy to get those various associations and government bodies do try to maintain such a list and then you get into the discussions of well who determines what goes on that list and what about non-traditional skilled providers and all of that all very necessary very difficult discussions so what we've ended up having to do for earliest Pilots is just establish trust registry say.
[2022-05-23T15:28:33.122Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z:  saying all right we're gonna have to postpone the.
[2022-05-23T15:28:34.311Z]	<Identity_Woman>	Identity Verification of the issuer - is solved potentially with the trust registry work that ToIP is doing.  Also leveraging existing trust frameworks like InCommon for Higher education
[2022-05-23T15:28:55.510Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: To solve this universally but for the moment we know that these dids correspond with these universities and so my question to you is has the Wala looked into or started working on trust Registries just literally lists either using the tossed over ID ATI or.
[2022-05-23T15:29:26.302Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Flat lifts that's why okay these are the issuer's of recognize or is that not even a problem because it's mediated through your platform so it's question 1 question 2 is on the identification of the credential holder side would it help to provide just a tiny bit of biometric data specifically a a photo a photo credential that's bound to the racking page would the addition of.
[2022-05-23T15:29:26.615Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z:  that bit of biometric.
[2022-05-23T15:29:29.323Z]	<Identity_Woman>	then you get into the problem of meta directorories of trust registries - that is solved with the TRAIN work coming out of ESSIF and being implemented for the first time by the GCCN
[2022-05-23T15:29:36.417Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Be worth it in terms of the Privacy trade-off versus the identity verification that you gain that's a thing.
[2022-05-23T15:30:10.473Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q-
[2022-05-23T15:30:18.677Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	oh that's brilliant. (partnering with a KYC institution like a bank)
[2022-05-23T15:30:38.300Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	@Kaliya - do you have a link to the TRAIN work?
[2022-05-23T15:31:19.679Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:31:41.428Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q?
[2022-05-23T15:31:41.980Z]	<Identity_Woman>	https://gitlab.grnet.gr/essif-lab/infrastructure/fraunhofer/train-source-code/-/tree/master/TRAIN-ATV-API
[2022-05-23T15:31:50.514Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	awesome, thank you so much :)
[2022-05-23T15:31:55.329Z]	<Identity_Woman>	https://train.trust-scheme.de/info/
[2022-05-23T15:32:12.493Z]	<Identity_Woman>	https://essif.trust-scheme.de/swagger_train/
[2022-05-23T15:32:38.964Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q?
[2022-05-23T15:32:43.116Z]	<Identity_Woman>	happy to connect you to GCCN folks - John Walker is leading the technical development on that.
[2022-05-23T15:32:52.509Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: It does thank you so much.
[2022-05-23T15:33:11.744Z]	<Identity_Woman>	https://www.lfph.io/global-covid-certificate-network/
[2022-05-23T15:33:50.031Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q+
[2022-05-23T15:33:54.092Z]	<Identity_Woman>	the term that some used in CCI work was "proxy issuer" for the role you are talking about
[2022-05-23T15:34:02.920Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: No that's great that makes a lot of sense.
[2022-05-23T15:34:31.850Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Sure yeah just just wondering if it would make sense or if it would add any value to add a little bit of biometric binding to the certificate holder in the form of picture would it make sense to issue a pictorial credential that is bound to whatever proof of skill but your purse.
[2022-05-23T15:34:49.738Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	@IdentityWoman - oh that's a great term, "proxy issuer"
[2022-05-23T15:35:08.600Z]	<Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com>	Does Diwala offers both a mobile as well as a cloud wallet for those without a smart phone ?
[2022-05-23T15:39:35.017Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Thank you very much snoring thanks so much for the questions I just wanted to flag two things first can he has been sharing some great links and resources and she offered to also put in touch with an organization that may be worthwhile having a chat and then.
[2022-05-23T15:40:18.734Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q?
[2022-05-23T15:42:21.719Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Thank you so much thank you for that answer.
[2022-05-23T15:42:26.925Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): - do you have any follow-up comments please go ahead.
[2022-05-23T15:42:46.287Z]	<Transcriber>	Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com: Yeah the only so have you thought about what kind of web-based infrastructure is it going to be like a browser extension or it's you know like a cloud-based one have you thought about it at that level yet or is it still kind of in design phase.
[2022-05-23T15:45:20.718Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q?
[2022-05-23T15:47:49.127Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q-
[2022-05-23T15:49:42.837Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q?
[2022-05-23T15:50:51.831Z]	<Nate_Otto_(he/him)>	q+ to ask about the credential request workflow
[2022-05-23T15:50:59.272Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): I'm Nate go ahead.
[2022-05-23T15:51:30.204Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him): Thanks I wanted a quick question about this credential request workflow you had the drop-down of different types that you talked about briefly because you go into a little bit more detail about like what are the stories that we can can accomplish with by requesting these different types how would you like this to grow over time and specifically we talked a lot about in this we talk a lot in this group about the open badges work that's going on and the use cases.
[2022-05-23T15:51:30.498Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him):  is four.
[2022-05-23T15:52:02.532Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him): Of claiming achievement of a defined achievement you've met the criteria of a particular achievement or credentials about skill where many different issuers might be able to claim that you have this certain skill and those are really useful claim types are claiming stories for the education space how are you hoping to grow this capability over time and you know do you have any interest in.
[2022-05-23T15:52:02.862Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him):  in in being able to like.
[2022-05-23T15:52:08.551Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto_(he/him): For you learn this particular badge or in this particular skill.
[2022-05-23T15:54:43.363Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2022-05-23T15:54:53.992Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): We're coming up at time sorry I don't know if you want to wrap it up just wanted to make sure we have.
[2022-05-23T15:56:00.368Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Thank you very much snoring I think thanks for sharing with your working on the challenges and some of the lessons we've learned along the way I think the work you're doing across a European Africa's is it is very important particularly in Africa the the use cases that you have a problem big on issues like the digital divide and Equity those are requirements that are probably more fat than another.
[2022-05-23T15:56:01.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Isis and also.
[2022-05-23T15:56:28.942Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): When you talk about trusted registry of issuers for example you know Africa fortunes is the continent where most of the diploma as well as volunteers come from so the issue there is particularly felt so going into the verifiable credential Direction and The Trusted registry feels like it's a it's going to be an important problem to solve so thanks a lot for doing that.
[2022-05-23T15:56:46.862Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): And also great that you are someone else that is connecting across different work groups doing the leading the interop work at death and being here I think this is how we go about trying to build it this for system also thank you for that again.
[2022-05-23T15:57:34.727Z]	<Identity_Woman>	where can we learn more about the plugfest?
[2022-05-23T15:57:44.673Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Thank you again thank you all right we're almost at the time I just wanted to Circle back and remind the participants that are in the court for the plugfest of the next steps well you should have received an email from Sharon with the recording of Friday's call the next meeting is going to be a spec review meeting and it's Thursday May 26th and 11:00 Eastern and just.
[2022-05-23T15:57:45.328Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): I guess everyone's benefit.
[2022-05-23T15:58:15.581Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): The hey of plugfest number one is scheduled for June 6 and that is a bit more on the plugfest any questions Around the Clock face please circulating through the mailing lists that you know we can have more efficient conversation there and I'd say that probably wraps it up for today unless we there's someone in the cube.
[2022-05-23T15:58:17.814Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q?
[2022-05-23T15:58:26.413Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	Kaliya: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/plugfest-1-2022/
[2022-05-23T15:58:34.073Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Let's see Jess and sorry I completely discard a cute man Nate I don't think that was before before but Jeff please.
[2022-05-23T15:58:40.563Z]	<Nate_Otto_(he/him)>	q-
[2022-05-23T15:58:44.401Z]	<Transcriber>	JeffO_Real-IT: Yeah sorry guys my channels messed up over here thanks though and great presentation store really good to see you.
[2022-05-23T15:58:51.084Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	Q?
[2022-05-23T15:58:51.811Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): All right so I guess probably no one answering the queue.
[2022-05-23T15:58:53.762Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Am I wrong.
[2022-05-23T15:58:57.767Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): Sorry go ahead.
[2022-05-23T15:59:05.513Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): I said not so all right everyone.
[2022-05-23T15:59:07.391Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Phil Phil if you're speaking you're muted.
[2022-05-23T15:59:14.751Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): We cannot hear you feel it's your speaking.
[2022-05-23T15:59:20.928Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Z: Alright send email to the mailing list thanks all.
[2022-05-23T15:59:25.763Z]	<Transcriber>	Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary): All right yes thank you very much everyone will see you next Monday.