Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-08-15-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-08-15-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-08-15

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Aug&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Mahmoud Alkhraishi, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau 
  (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Paul Dietrich GS1, Orie Steele, Ted 
  Thibodeau

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Everyone has signed the IPR agreement 
  [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/conformance/
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Let's check in on conformance and interop 
  reports [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Everyone doing well, we need to pick up. 
  Nothing to worry about [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen : Interop: looking much nicer
<nis> Excellent work guys
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/855
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/855
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/853
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Allow merging out of band after PR. [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Ted Thibodeau:  Striving for the fewest words possible is not the 
  way to go [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Agree [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/854
Nis Jespersen :  Takes out SIMA application, which exists 
  elsewhere [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/855
Nis Jespersen :  Takes out duplicate definition [scribe assist by 
  Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/580
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Still nothing happening on 580. [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Orie Steele:  Let's ping and worn that we close next week [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  Adding pending close [scribe assist by Nis 
  Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Moving to Trace vocab issues [scribe assist 
  by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/711
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Necessary? [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Orie Steele:  Status list will be included in VC v2 [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/705
<nis> Closing
Nis Jespersen :  GS1 DM has been updated. We just need to 
  implement it [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/596
Nis Jespersen :  We did this partly last week. This is a good 
  ticket to get the job done [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Assigning one from each company to tackle 
  the VCs we are responsible for [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
<orie> AFAIK, `id` is optional in GS1 Credentials.
<paul_dietrich_gs1> paulfdietrich
<orie> ` - [ ]`
<nis> id A DID for this credential. The ID isn’t resolvable 
  because the credential is sensitive information and only the user 
  company can decide when it’s presented.
<nis> A little unclear
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/178
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/204
Nis Jespersen :  The intention is to get resolvable HTS codes 
  [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
<orie> saddly I need to drop for another call
Nis Jespersen :  Agree to close [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  If measured, use measurement, if a value, 
  use quantitative value [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  Agree on the original intent, but hte discussion 
  has deviated. The solution to this should be implemented with 
  JSON Schema [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/357
Nis Jespersen :  Intent of this is to keep analogue and JSON 
  examples alongside each other for business context [scribe assist 
  by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/607
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  How do we distinguish between revocation and 
  suspension [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Pinging folks. Also Manu on input on our 
  interpretation os SL2021 [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  I agree on the interpretation, but I might just 
  be whirled in on the same bad assumption [scribe assist by Nis 
  Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/366
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  We should have workflows which describes 
  events [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  I'm awaiting input from industry. [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Do you know of sample workflows for EPCIS 
  events? Across verticals? [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
<nis> Assigning Paul to investigate
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/527
Nis Jespersen :  +1 On Ted's comment on rdfs [scribe assist by 
  Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Ben's suggestion doesn't block [scribe 
  assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen :  But you would block duplicated with JSON Schema, 
  not context [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Is there even a way to do oneOf on context 
  [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Ted Thibodeau:  RDF is very open. Descriptive only, not 
  prescriptive [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Ted Thibodeau:  Feed your ontology to a SHAQL engine. It then 
  filters out what is not allowed [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
<nis> as per the ontology
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Let's start with pending close tagged issues 
  first next time [scribe assist by Nis Jespersen ]
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/427
Ted Thibodeau: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/427
