[2023-08-15T17:29:52.370Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-08-15T17:32:03.740Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2023-08-15T17:32:59.669Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-08-15T17:33:30.851Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	present+
[2023-08-15T17:34:09.658Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-08-15T17:34:29.754Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-08-15T17:34:29.755Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-08-15T17:35:19.881Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: everyone has signed the IPR agreement
[2023-08-15T17:36:09.593Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-08-15T17:36:09.593Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-08-15T17:36:49.338Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/conformance/
[2023-08-15T17:36:55.604Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
[2023-08-15T17:37:02.851Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: let's check in on conformance and interop reports
[2023-08-15T17:37:33.495Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Everyone doing well, we need to pick up. Nothing to worry about
[2023-08-15T17:37:53.641Z]	<nis>	Interop: looking much nicer
[2023-08-15T17:38:02.190Z]	<nis>	Excellent work guys
[2023-08-15T17:38:10.520Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
[2023-08-15T17:38:25.399Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/855
[2023-08-15T17:38:27.462Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/855
[2023-08-15T17:38:46.036Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/853
[2023-08-15T17:41:01.474Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: allow merging out of band after PR.
[2023-08-15T17:41:21.480Z]	<nis>	Ted: Striving for the fewest words possible is not the way to go
[2023-08-15T17:41:28.307Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: agree
[2023-08-15T17:42:00.032Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/854
[2023-08-15T17:42:38.137Z]	<nis>	Nis: Takes out SIMA application, which exists elsewhere
[2023-08-15T17:42:38.387Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/855
[2023-08-15T17:44:20.437Z]	<nis>	Nis: takes out duplicate definition
[2023-08-15T17:45:35.180Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/580
[2023-08-15T17:46:03.137Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: still nothing happening on 580.
[2023-08-15T17:46:28.001Z]	<nis>	Orie: let's ping and worn that we close next week
[2023-08-15T17:46:50.626Z]	<nis>	Nis: adding pending close
[2023-08-15T17:47:03.602Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Moving to Trace vocab issues
[2023-08-15T17:47:06.409Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-08-15T17:47:15.702Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/711
[2023-08-15T17:48:07.198Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Necessary?
[2023-08-15T17:48:10.080Z]	<nis>	ORie: status list will be included in VC v2
[2023-08-15T17:48:10.562Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/705
[2023-08-15T17:48:12.924Z]	<nis>	Closing
[2023-08-15T17:50:02.549Z]	<nis>	Nis: GS1 DM has been updated. We just need to implement it
[2023-08-15T17:50:24.565Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/596
[2023-08-15T17:52:02.408Z]	<nis>	Nis: we did this partly last week. This is a good ticket to get the job done
[2023-08-15T17:52:31.589Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: assigning one from each company to tackle the VCs we are responsible for
[2023-08-15T17:54:13.946Z]	<Orie>	AFAIK, `id` is optional in GS1 Credentials.
[2023-08-15T17:54:24.391Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	paulfdietrich
[2023-08-15T17:55:21.642Z]	<Orie>	` - [ ]`
[2023-08-15T17:55:39.746Z]	<nis>	id A DID for this credential. The ID isn’t resolvable because the credential is sensitive information and only the user company can decide when it’s presented.
[2023-08-15T17:55:53.498Z]	<nis>	A little unclear
[2023-08-15T17:56:22.040Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/178
[2023-08-15T18:00:33.527Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/204
[2023-08-15T18:00:39.462Z]	<nis>	Nis: the intention is to get resolvable HTS codes
[2023-08-15T18:00:46.102Z]	<Orie>	saddly I need to drop for another call
[2023-08-15T18:00:47.168Z]	<nis>	Nis: Agree to close
[2023-08-15T18:04:40.865Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: if measured, use measurement, if a value, use quantitative value
[2023-08-15T18:05:07.173Z]	<nis>	Nis: Agree on the original intent, but hte discussion has deviated. The solution to this should be implemented with JSON Schema
[2023-08-15T18:05:50.731Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/357
[2023-08-15T18:07:02.734Z]	<nis>	Nis: Intent of this is to keep analogue and JSON examples alongside each other for business context
[2023-08-15T18:07:03.479Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/607
[2023-08-15T18:07:55.355Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: How do we distinguish between revocation and suspension
[2023-08-15T18:08:38.379Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: pinging folks. Also Manu on input on our interpretation os SL2021
[2023-08-15T18:09:32.486Z]	<nis>	Nis: I agree on the interpretation, but I might just be whirled in on the same bad assumption
[2023-08-15T18:09:43.447Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/366
[2023-08-15T18:10:15.530Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: we should have workflows which describes events
[2023-08-15T18:10:42.458Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: I'm awaiting input from industry.
[2023-08-15T18:11:17.318Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: do you know of sample workflows for EPCIS events? Across verticals?
[2023-08-15T18:11:25.604Z]	<nis>	Assigning Paul to investigate
[2023-08-15T18:12:08.469Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/527
[2023-08-15T18:14:21.228Z]	<nis>	Nis: +1 on Ted's comment on rdfs
[2023-08-15T18:15:33.939Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: Ben's suggestion doesn't block
[2023-08-15T18:15:52.456Z]	<nis>	Nis: but you would block duplicated with JSON Schema, not context
[2023-08-15T18:16:48.508Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: is there even a way to do oneOf on context
[2023-08-15T18:17:12.140Z]	<nis>	Ted: RDF is very open. Descriptive only, not prescriptive
[2023-08-15T18:17:45.981Z]	<nis>	Ted: feed your ontology to a SHAQL engine. It then filters out what is not allowed
[2023-08-15T18:17:52.811Z]	<nis>	as per the ontology
[2023-08-15T18:18:42.586Z]	<nis>	Mahmoud: let's start with pending close tagged issues first next time
[2023-08-15T18:20:28.978Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/47
[2023-08-15T18:20:32.068Z]	<TallTed>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/issues/427
[2023-08-15T18:20:55.600Z]	<TallTed>	s|issues/47|issues/427|
