Thanks to Kaliya Young for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-04-07/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2020-04-07

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Apr/0051.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions & Reintroductions
  2. Announcements & Reminders
  3. Progress on Action Items
  4. Charter and Process Updates
Organizer:
  Christopher Allen and Joe Andrieu and Kim Hamilton Duffy
Scribe:
  Kaliya Young
Present:
  Jeff Orgel, Justin Richer, Dmitri Zagidulin, Kim Hamilton Duffy, 
  Nate Otto, Ryan Grant, Amy Guy, Joe Andrieu, Wayne Vaughn, Adam 
  Lemmon, Christopher Allen, Kaliya Young, Yancy Ribbens, Adrian 
  Gropper, Orie Steele, Dan Burnett, Sumita Jonak
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2020-04-07/audio.ogg

Kaliya Young is scribing.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
Kim Hamilton Duffy: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

Kim Hamilton Duffy: Kaliya leads the IIW workshop, going virtual, 
  in different time zones
Audio terrible for me too
Joe Andrieu: Audio is hard to pick up
There, seems better now
Jeff Orgel: Review IIW portion please
Kaliya Young:  Kaliya doing independent consulting and working on 
  covid response [scribe assist by Kim Hamilton Duffy]
Kaliya Young:  IIW is coming up and it's virtual and invite 
  everyone [scribe assist by Kim Hamilton Duffy]
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxx-30-2020a-tickets-79016788341
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Natholloway: Nat Holloway work at USAA with 
  Sumita

Topic: Announcements & Reminders

Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Announcements and Reminders
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxx-30-2020a-tickets-79016788341
Kaliya Young:  Centering on pdt, but that's late for europe, so 
  also doing overnight sessions [scribe assist by Kim Hamilton 
  Duffy]
Kaliya Young:  1.5 Hour sessions with breaks (no lunch), and 
  shifting to different time zone friendly timings [scribe assist 
  by Kim Hamilton Duffy]
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Identiverse http://www.cvent.com/d/fhqnf3/4W
Identiverse is going virtual
June 8-11
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Regular verifiable credentials calls for 
  education 8-9am pacific.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Did resolution calls on thursday - ongoing 
  for a while 1-2 pacific.
Balazs_Nemethi: responding with the community response to COVID19 
  work items may be surfacing that address IPR - no clear path on 
  how that can resolve. Delivering a work item that should have iPR 
  but doesn't could be very discouraging even if made with good 
  will. Wanted
Orie Steele: +1 Lets make sure we don't build schemas that people 
  are afraid to use...
The word IPR means many different things
Nate Otto:  He was asking about what type of IPR issues are 
  seeking to address.
Nate Otto:  Get release of anyones patents so that issues in the 
  future is addressed
Orie Steele:  +1 To what Balazs said everyone wants to contribute
Orie Steele:  We want Medical experts to be involved.
Orie Steele:  We didn't think about the IpR and rights management 
  and then it gets adopted and nuked by a bunch of trolls. IPR 
  stuff sucks the joy out of everything it touches we should be 
  secure that we are not going to get impacted by patent trolls we 
  should have confidence that someone is going
Orie Steele:  Would like to a quick and easy way to protect the 
  community work but have fear that it an unsolved issues
Orie Steele: To be clear, my recommendation to DIF was to work 
  with the CCG, and use it and not the DIF for this protection.
Christopher Allen:  Similar concerns monitoring a number of 
  different projects.  a lot of the companies that are involved 
  have a history of patents and other things. I have become 
  increasingly aware of some land mines in the location area. I do 
  think the W3C should be in a good spot to create a venue that has 
  an IPR protections that are required. Concern the cat is out of 
  the bag. Anti-patents that address the issue.
Christopher Allen:  Should this be addressed here or in some 
  other group in the W3C it is easy to get our deliberations under 
  IPR.
Christopher Allen: +1 Wayne on broader participation
Wayne Vaughn:  Chiming in from the DIF perspective - one of the 
  most important things to me get people in the field involved in 
  the field involved with these processes. Critical to have 
  participation of those in the field directly. Difficult for HNS 
  HHS or .... consolidate the discussion.
Wayne Vaughn:  We need to support those from outside our 
  community to be able to interact with us as technologists.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Some conversations in DIF happening around 
  this. Two paths to consider - continuing over an e-mail 
  discussion. What is the lightest way forward. CCG or DIF seem 
  easiest.
Orie Steele: Proposal to use: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-examples, have conversations in a 
  number of places...
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Proposed way forward Balazs and Wayne talk 
  about it.
Balazs@identity.foundation - write me on covid IPR

Topic: Progress on Action Items

Blazs: will put email in and can be in touch.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/41
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/75
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  They were making real progress but then 
  stalled.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  We were hoping to refer to that - we are 
  doing registries crypto suite registries. In beginning of thread 
  - light weight meta registries process. Proposal is to use that 
  as a starting point for how we maintain registries and we will 
  get to that later in the call.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  All we need is for the people who are leads 
  of registries - it seems accurate.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/113
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Last action item is a proposed code 
  repository
Kim Hamilton Duffy: Lds-jws2020 code repository
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  It is an approach to using JSON-LD 
  signatures but it uses standard JOSE libraries - it came up in 
  the verifiable credentials and JOSE signing libraries.
Orie Steele: Some support in did core: 
  https://w3c.github.io/did-core-registries/#jwsverificationkey2020
Orie Steele: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/ld-cryptosuite-registry/#jws
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  What ORIE proposed was the best solution - 
  we propose to bring it into ongoing work items - they are not 
  going to turn into a specification.
Orie Steele:  Key representation is the most valuable part of if.
Orie Steele:  Value happy to move to CCG if that is desirable
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Proposed lead is Kim, Orie and some others 
  in the VC Edu group.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  That is it for progression action items.

Topic: Charter and Process Updates

Kim Hamilton Duffy: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_7noTaKsqN-TBR7VgECpy-H-zS05rNds81GyRw95jE/edit#
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Chartering document - lighter scribing... :)
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Took the charter and simplified and 
  modernized.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Took processes and improved them - spirited 
  out the CCG work item process that is a separate document - first 
  paragraph hasn't changed.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  You can make changes in suggestion 
  mode/track changes feel free to add those in
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  The thing we discussed heavily the closing a 
  chair process and removing a chair and transparency.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  We had some light changes to the charter -
Joe Andrieu:  This is young text so if you have feedback.
Joe Andrieu:  We updated this to follow - if there is no 
  principled objections please proceed.
Identiverse main page is here - https://identiverse.com
Joe Andrieu:  Public vote has to be called in two weeks - lasts 
  for two weeks 2/3 is required to past.  Process is now more 
  streamlined.
Joe Andrieu: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/charter/
Christopher Allen:  I wanted to the document had a long laborious 
  thing about consent...loosely connected to amendments to charter 
  - the reality is that if the community wants to move forward or 
  change to the amendment and there is no principled objection it 
  should be easy to do.
Christopher Allen:  This replaces the harder process... that we 
  had.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  We have been thinking about changing the 
  process
Joe Andrieu:  Changes to this charter requires a 30 day vote. we 
  will formally propose we adopt the draft and this needs to then 
  be voted on in the mailing list.
Kim Hamilton Duffy: New work item process: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vj811aUbs8GwZUNo-LIFBHafsz4rZTSnRtPv7RQaqNc/edit#
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  We discussed this a month ago all of these 
  diagrams to clarify the process.
I like the diagrams :)
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Key internal workings is around work items 
  and how they happen. We try to shield people from the W3C 
  processes that are sort of the way things need to be. How do we 
  shield people from all this process. new GitHub template that 
  asks for information.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  If you don't like GitHub then reach out to 
  chairs.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Nothing changed - it is there to support 
  understanding more in-depth. it is meant to facilitate the 
  movement of work items through the standardized process. Ongoing 
  community draft.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Registry is one
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Realizes not quite correct - creating 
  respect documents.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  We want to make it so that any registry/repo 
  that it will apply
Christopher Allen:  These ongoing things never become final 
  reports. we hope that some will become official draft.
Christopher Allen:  The registry requirements have not been 
  defined by the W3C - we are hoping it makes it easy to respond to 
  their changes. They may say that we have to add something to the 
  registries process.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  What are our goals with this. we need to 
  (sorry was sneezing)
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  The 2nd goal we do want to hold a chairs 
  election
We have to change the charter to hold the election
Christopher Allen:  Would like to propose that this move forward 
  this week - hoping manu and other who wrote the first one

PROPOSAL:  Adopt new CCG Charter (this starts the 30 day 
  countdown) https

Joe Andrieu: Note: there is a named version in that doc 
  "PROPOSED"
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  They want to get it started.
Joe Andrieu:  We had a version "name proposed" that is the 
  version that is going out - future edits don't matter as far as 
  this proposal.
Kim Hamilton Duffy:  Thank you everyone. Following up with next 
  steps.
