[2020-04-07T16:09:22.314Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:10:25.961Z]	<justin_r>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:10:29.349Z]	<dmitriz>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:10:48.432Z]	<kimhd>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:11:01.104Z]	<ottonomy>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:11:53.548Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:12:34.998Z]	<rhiaro>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:12:48.037Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:13:34.465Z]	<wayne>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:13:35.011Z]	<adamjlemmon>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:13:45.727Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:14:29.620Z]	<kimhd>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2020Apr/0051.html
[2020-04-07T16:14:44.308Z]	<ChristopherA>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:15:16.886Z]	<AnthonyRonning>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:16:19.492Z]	<joel_>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:16:34.840Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2020-04-07T16:16:53.175Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2020-04-07T16:17:01.345Z]	<yancy>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:17:07.464Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2020-04-07T16:17:20.054Z]	<kimhd>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2020-04-07T16:17:49.145Z]	<Balazs_Nemethi>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:18:38.292Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit?usp=sharing
[2020-04-07T16:19:55.377Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2020-04-07T16:20:35.369Z]	<agropper>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:20:45.652Z]	<kimhd>	Kaliya leads the IIW workshop, going virtual, in different time zones
[2020-04-07T16:20:49.653Z]	<by_caballero>	audio terrible for me too
[2020-04-07T16:20:50.768Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	audio is hard to pick up
[2020-04-07T16:21:08.425Z]	<by_caballero>	there, seems better now
[2020-04-07T16:21:44.054Z]	<JeffO-StL>	review IIW portion please
[2020-04-07T16:21:48.454Z]	<kimhd>	identitywoman: Kaliya doing independent consulting and working on covid response
[2020-04-07T16:22:03.370Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:22:15.985Z]	<kimhd>	identitywoman: IIW is coming up and it's virtual and invite everyone
[2020-04-07T16:22:47.632Z]	<by_caballero>	https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxx-30-2020a-tickets-79016788341
[2020-04-07T16:22:55.940Z]	<burn_>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:23:04.086Z]	<sumita>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:23:04.345Z]	<identity_woman>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:23:50.326Z]	<kimhd>	natholloway: Nat Holloway work at USAA with Sumita
[2020-04-07T16:23:50.454Z]	<identity_woman>	New person introduces themselves (missed where they work)
[2020-04-07T16:24:07.367Z]	<kimhd>	Topic:  Progress on Action Items
[2020-04-07T16:24:14.310Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-04-07T16:24:18.746Z]	<identity_woman>	@kimhd: progress on action items
[2020-04-07T16:24:26.573Z]	<natholloway>	i work at USAA
[2020-04-07T16:24:49.088Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2020-04-07T16:24:54.854Z]	<identity_woman>	Kimhd: Announcements and Reminders
[2020-04-07T16:25:22.779Z]	<kimhd>	https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxx-30-2020a-tickets-79016788341
[2020-04-07T16:25:54.939Z]	<kimhd>	identity_woman: centering on pdt, but that's late for europe, so also doing overnight sessions
[2020-04-07T16:26:16.356Z]	<Tom_S__-_USAA>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:26:30.535Z]	<kimhd>	identity_woman: 1.5 hour sessions with breaks (no lunch), and shifting to different time zone friendly timings
[2020-04-07T16:27:23.880Z]	<kimhd>	Identiverse http://www.cvent.com/d/fhqnf3/4W
[2020-04-07T16:27:26.529Z]	<identity_woman>	identiverse is going virtual
[2020-04-07T16:27:36.418Z]	<identity_woman>	June 8-11
[2020-04-07T16:27:44.105Z]	<Balazs_Nemethi>	q+
[2020-04-07T16:27:59.487Z]	<identity_woman>	Kimhd: regular verifiable credentials calls for education 8-9am pacific.
[2020-04-07T16:28:13.765Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: Did resolution calls on thursday - ongoing for a while 1-2 pacific.
[2020-04-07T16:28:22.595Z]	<kimhd>	ack Balazs_Nemethi
[2020-04-07T16:28:32.009Z]	<david_mason>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:29:33.354Z]	<identity_woman>	@balazs_Nemethi: responding with the community response to COVID19 work items may be surfacing that address IPR - no clear path on how that can resolve. Delivering a work item that should have iPR but doesn't could be very discouraging even if made with good will. Wanted
[2020-04-07T16:29:53.172Z]	<Orie>	+1 lets make sure we don't build schemas that people are afraid to use...
[2020-04-07T16:29:59.734Z]	<ottonomy>	q+ to ask what that means
[2020-04-07T16:29:59.946Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2020-04-07T16:30:11.425Z]	<kimhd>	ack ottonomy
[2020-04-07T16:30:12.948Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-04-07T16:30:33.865Z]	<identity_woman>	The word IPR means many different things
[2020-04-07T16:30:58.414Z]	<identity_woman>	david_mason: he was asking about what type of IPR issues are seeking to address.
[2020-04-07T16:31:15.471Z]	<kimhd>	ack Orie
[2020-04-07T16:31:18.429Z]	<identity_woman>	david_mason: get release of anyones patents so that issues in the future is addressed
[2020-04-07T16:31:36.833Z]	<identity_woman>	Orie: +1 to what Balazs said everyone wants to contribute
[2020-04-07T16:31:56.805Z]	<identity_woman>	Orie: we want Medical experts to be involved.
[2020-04-07T16:32:00.545Z]	<wayne>	q+
[2020-04-07T16:33:12.296Z]	<identity_woman>	Orie: We didn't think about the IpR and rights management and then it gets adopted and nuked by a bunch of trolls. IPR stuff sucks the joy out of everything it touches we should be secure that we are not going to get impacted by patent trolls we should have confidence that someone is going
[2020-04-07T16:33:24.466Z]	<by_caballero>	+1 -- all the doctors, pharmacists, and hospital administrators we would like to contribute will likely work at companies that have IP clauses in their contracts...
[2020-04-07T16:33:31.672Z]	<kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-04-07T16:33:34.715Z]	<identity_woman>	Orie: would like to a quick and easy way to protect the community work but have fear that it an unsolved issues
[2020-04-07T16:34:54.898Z]	<Orie>	To be clear, my recommendation to DIF was to work with the CCG, and use it and not the DIF for this protection.
[2020-04-07T16:35:08.335Z]	<identity_woman>	christopherA: similar concerns monitoring a number of different projects.  a lot of the companies that are involved have a history of patents and other things. I have become increasingly aware of some land mines in the location area. I do think the W3C should be in a good spot to create a venue that has an IPR protections that are required. Concern the cat is out of the bag. Anti-patents that address the issue.
[2020-04-07T16:35:28.329Z]	<identity_woman>	ChristopherA: should this be addressed here or in some other group in the W3C it is easy to get our deliberations under IPR.
[2020-04-07T16:35:33.856Z]	<kimhd>	ack wayne
[2020-04-07T16:36:06.299Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-04-07T16:36:09.939Z]	<ChristopherA>	+1 wayne on broader participation
[2020-04-07T16:36:32.705Z]	<identity_woman>	Wayne: chiming in from the DIF perspective - one of the most important things to me get people in the field involved in the field involved with these processes. Critical to have participation of those in the field directly. Difficult for HNS HHS or .... consolidate the discussion.
[2020-04-07T16:36:54.936Z]	<identity_woman>	Wayne: We need to support those from outside our community to be able to interact with us as technologists.
[2020-04-07T16:37:24.045Z]	<identity_woman>	Kimhd: some conversations in DIF happening around this. Two paths to consider - continuing over an e-mail discussion. What is the lightest way forward. CCG or DIF seem easiest.
[2020-04-07T16:37:44.410Z]	<Orie>	Proposal to use: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-examples, have conversations in a number of places...
[2020-04-07T16:38:48.075Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: proposed way forward Balazs and Wayne talk about it.
[2020-04-07T16:39:02.573Z]	<Balazs_Nemethi>	balazs@identity.foundation - write me on covid IPR
[2020-04-07T16:39:14.161Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Progress on Action Items
[2020-04-07T16:39:21.380Z]	<identity_woman>	Blazs: will put email in and can be in touch.
[2020-04-07T16:39:34.539Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
[2020-04-07T16:40:01.278Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/41
[2020-04-07T16:40:13.993Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/75
[2020-04-07T16:40:53.938Z]	<identity_woman>	Kimhd: they were making real progress but then stalled.
[2020-04-07T16:41:03.089Z]	<natholloway>	present+
[2020-04-07T16:41:43.715Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: We were hoping to refer to that - we are doing registries crypto suite registries. In beginning of thread - light weight meta registries process. Proposal is to use that as a starting point for how we maintain registries and we will get to that later in the call.
[2020-04-07T16:42:05.075Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-04-07T16:42:06.697Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: all we need is for the people who are leads of registries - it seems accurate.
[2020-04-07T16:42:32.989Z]	<kimhd>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/113
[2020-04-07T16:42:37.365Z]	<identity_woman>	Kimhd: last action item is a proposed code repository
[2020-04-07T16:42:42.308Z]	<kimhd>	lds-jws2020 code repository
[2020-04-07T16:43:20.067Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: it is an approach to using JSON-LD signatures but it uses standard JOSE libraries - it came up in the verifiable credentials and JOSE signing libraries.
[2020-04-07T16:43:53.968Z]	<Orie>	some support in did core: https://w3c.github.io/did-core-registries/#jwsverificationkey2020
[2020-04-07T16:43:55.699Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/ld-cryptosuite-registry/#jws
[2020-04-07T16:44:02.860Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: what ORIE proposed was the best solution - we propose to bring it into ongoing work items - they are not going to turn into a specification.
[2020-04-07T16:44:20.126Z]	<identity_woman>	Orie: key representation is the most valuable part of if.
[2020-04-07T16:44:40.168Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-04-07T16:44:46.645Z]	<identity_woman>	Orie: value happy to move to CCG if that is desirable
[2020-04-07T16:45:02.559Z]	<identity_woman>	Kimhd: proposed lead is Kim, Orie and some others in the VC Edu group.
[2020-04-07T16:45:32.765Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: that is it for progression action items.
[2020-04-07T16:45:36.740Z]	<kimhd>	Topic: Charter and Process Updates
[2020-04-07T16:45:45.297Z]	<kimhd>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_7noTaKsqN-TBR7VgECpy-H-zS05rNds81GyRw95jE/edit#
[2020-04-07T16:45:50.386Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: chartering document - lighter scribing... :)
[2020-04-07T16:46:19.995Z]	<identity_woman>	Kimhd: took the charter and simplified and modernized.
[2020-04-07T16:47:33.447Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: took processes and improved them - spirited out the CCG work item process that is a separate document - first paragraph hasn't changed.
[2020-04-07T16:47:57.919Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: you can make changes in suggestion mode/track changes feel free to add those in
[2020-04-07T16:48:34.385Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: the thing we discussed heavily the closing a chair process and removing a chair and transparency.
[2020-04-07T16:48:52.845Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: We had some light changes to the charter -
[2020-04-07T16:49:05.769Z]	<identity_woman>	Joe: this is young text so if you have feedback.
[2020-04-07T16:49:36.220Z]	<identity_woman>	Joe: we updated this to follow - if there is no principled objections please proceed.
[2020-04-07T16:50:17.695Z]	<identity_woman>	Identiverse main page is here - https://identiverse.com
[2020-04-07T16:50:41.405Z]	<identity_woman>	joe: public vote has to be called in two weeks - lasts for two weeks 2/3 is required to past.  Process is now more streamlined.
[2020-04-07T16:50:52.275Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-04-07T16:51:07.916Z]	<kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-04-07T16:51:15.008Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+
[2020-04-07T16:51:43.079Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/charter/
[2020-04-07T16:51:51.169Z]	<identity_woman>	christopherA: I wanted to the document had a long laborious thing about consent...loosely connected to amendments to charter - the reality is that if the community wants to move forward or change to the amendment and there is no principled objection it should be easy to do.
[2020-04-07T16:52:12.559Z]	<identity_woman>	chirstophera: this replaces the harder process... that we had.
[2020-04-07T16:52:37.485Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: we have been thinking about changing the process
[2020-04-07T16:52:38.289Z]	<kimhd>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-04-07T16:53:22.959Z]	<identity_woman>	joeandrieu: changes to this charter requires a 30 day vote. we will formally propose we adopt the draft and this needs to then be voted on in the mailing list.
[2020-04-07T16:53:45.165Z]	<kimhd>	New work item process: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vj811aUbs8GwZUNo-LIFBHafsz4rZTSnRtPv7RQaqNc/edit#
[2020-04-07T16:54:13.076Z]	<identity_woman>	Kimdh: we discussed this a month ago all of these diagrams to clarify the process.
[2020-04-07T16:54:49.410Z]	<identity_woman>	I like the diagrams :)
[2020-04-07T16:55:48.877Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: key internal workings is around work items and how they happen. We try to shield people from the W3C processes that are sort of the way things need to be. How do we shield people from all this process. new GitHub template that asks for information.
[2020-04-07T16:56:10.367Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: if you don't like GitHub then reach out to chairs.
[2020-04-07T16:56:27.014Z]	<ChristopherA>	q+
[2020-04-07T16:56:51.188Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: Nothing changed - it is there to support understanding more in-depth. it is meant to facilitate the movement of work items through the standardized process. Ongoing community draft.
[2020-04-07T16:57:08.805Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: Registry is one
[2020-04-07T16:57:48.197Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: realizes not quite correct - creating respect documents.
[2020-04-07T16:58:29.605Z]	<kimhd>	ack ChristopherA
[2020-04-07T16:58:30.405Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: we want to make it so that any registry/repo that it will apply
[2020-04-07T16:58:32.125Z]	<kimhd>	q?
[2020-04-07T16:58:52.785Z]	<identity_woman>	Christophera: these ongoing things never become final reports. we hope that some will become official draft.
[2020-04-07T17:00:00.566Z]	<identity_woman>	christophera: the registry requirements have not been defined by the W3C - we are hoping it makes it easy to respond to their changes. They may say that we have to add something to the registries process.
[2020-04-07T17:01:39.840Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: What are our goals with this. we need to (sorry was sneezing)
[2020-04-07T17:01:49.406Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q+
[2020-04-07T17:01:51.767Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: the 2nd goal we do want to hold a chairs election
[2020-04-07T17:02:07.971Z]	<identity_woman>	we have to change the charter to hold the election
[2020-04-07T17:02:42.710Z]	<identity_woman>	ChristopherA: would like to propose that this move forward this week - hoping manu and other who wrote the first one
[2020-04-07T17:04:19.955Z]	<kimhd>	Proposal: Adopt new CCG Charter (this starts the 30 day countdown) https://docs.google.com/document/d/15_7noTaKsqN-TBR7VgECpy-H-zS05rNds81GyRw95jE/edit#
[2020-04-07T17:04:39.907Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	note: there is a named version in that doc "PROPOSED"
[2020-04-07T17:04:48.685Z]	<identity_woman>	kinhd: They want to get it started.
[2020-04-07T17:06:39.929Z]	<identity_woman>	Joe: we had a version "name proposed" that is the version that is going out - future edits don't matter as far as this proposal.
[2020-04-07T17:06:42.150Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	q?
[2020-04-07T17:06:50.198Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-04-07T17:06:54.752Z]	<kimhd>	ack JoeAndrieu
[2020-04-07T17:06:58.639Z]	<JoeAndrieu>	present+
[2020-04-07T17:07:11.989Z]	<identity_woman>	kimhd: thank you everyone. Following up with next steps.
[2020-04-07T17:14:14.203Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: connections?
[2020-04-07T17:14:22.903Z]	<dlehn>	voip-ccg: disconnect a53
