Thanks to russell_h_(mesur.io) and Our Robot Overlords and russell_h_(mesur.io) for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-09-19-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-09-19-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-09-19

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Sep&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  russell_h_(mesur.io) and Our Robot Overlords and russell_h_(mesur.io)
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Russell H (mesur.io), Benjamin Collins, Mahmoud 
  Alkhraishi, Chris Abernethy, Orie Steele, TallTed // Ted 
  Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)

russell_h_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
russell_h_(mesur.io) is scribing.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/871
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/872
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/873
Nis Jespersen :  Diving into interop
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Work to be done on waybill?
Nis Jespersen :  Not inlined, how we like to inline docs. Based 
  on iata's very elaborate reqs, aligns very well to iata paper 
  template. That part's solid
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So some work on internal structure we're 
  using, but pretty in line with reqs of paper doc
Nis Jespersen :  Yes, why?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  A customer asked, brought up iata airwaybill
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
Nis Jespersen :  Yeah, never been tested in wild but a lot of 
  stuff, aligned with reqs, safe to point them at that
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/530
Nis Jespersen :  Least recently updated issues interop
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  10 Issues all straightfwd, rephrase or 
  restructure etc., haven't found time
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/503
Nis Jespersen :  Pinging you on ticket
Chris Abernethy:  Been out of office, don't think anything 
  needed, ready for PR
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/482
Nis Jespersen :  482, Chris?
Nis Jespersen :  Oh, marked pending vc 2.0 upgrade. remove 
  assignee mahmoud?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Keep, happy to stay on it and do it, just 
  hold off
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/506
Nis Jespersen :  506, Mike, to orie. Orie, anything you need?
Orie Steele:  No, blocked by VC 2.0 work I think. Ik want to 
  support, some crypto algs want to rec, know what they are, could 
  put text around this now... could address without adding 
  examples, "sig base securing mechanisms rec'd to use base [?] or 
  stronger"
Nis Jespersen :  So don't put 2.0 label?
Orie Steele:  Mark as ready for PR, just needs respec text to 
  close
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/552
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/479
Nis Jespersen :  552, Me, adding interop test for gs1 
  credentials. Pinging myself, also ready for PR
Chris Abernethy:  Placeholder for us to update openapi spec, have 
  some examples where content of signed items mmodified for reasons 
  but sigs not regenerated, so examples not internally consistent 
  so should be updated
Nis Jespersen :  We don't sign examples anymore, on vocab
Chris Abernethy:  Possible things have changed since opened, if 
  have could investigate and close
Orie Steele:  So, duplicating testing across interop & vocab?
Chris Abernethy:  Not to do with testing, it's bc including 
  examples in openapi texts for requests. If someone actually tries 
  examples and it doesn't do what wants
Orie Steele:  Wait for 2.0, use those examples
Nis Jespersen :  So adding wait for 2.0 label
Orie Steele:  Still on 479, says soemthing on schemas, if any req 
  on proof for yaml files that needs to be addressed, cause that'll 
  block 2.0 - what comment from 1 month ago says
Chris Abernethy:  Agree but not sure it applies here
Chris Abernethy:  These aren't examples in specs, they're in 
  openapi
Orie Steele:  Would recommend not having examples in openapi with 
  proofs
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  How test creds verify if no proof
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Still testing v1. I understand v2 we remove, 
  but for now we keep?
Orie Steele:  My understanding, not try and support v1 + v2, at 
  some pt we make decision to switch all
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  But today supporting v1. I think until that 
  day should stay in examples
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So chris no action item there if all on same 
  page
Chris Abernethy:  So we leave as-is with incorrect?
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Suggest we regen proofs, but no action item 
  on removing proofs today
Nis Jespersen : +1
Orie Steele:  Would just leave as broken, won't matter, 
  unnecessary work
Chris Abernethy:  So close won't fix?
Orie Steele:  Yeah let's do that
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/359
Nis Jespersen :  Any objections? great
Chris Abernethy:  Old one, placeholder to add conformance testing 
  for cred status endpts
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Do we have interop testing on creds status?
Chris Abernethy:  Not recalling
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Not do any work bc know going to be bunch of 
  work on v2 with status list changes
Orie Steele:  Agree
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  So don't close but mark v2, wait until
Chris Abernethy:  Seconded
Nis Jespersen :  So removing 'ready for pr", adding "vc 2.0"
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/483
Nis Jespersen :  483, Mahmoud?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/554
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Were testing for msg content, thought we 
  resolved this? did resolution we shouldn't care what message is, 
  just structure? & I think tests currently don't care. Ping me to 
  search?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/460
Nis Jespersen :  554, Will find time for it, pinging myself
<mahmoud> Apologies need to drop off now.
Chris Abernethy:  Trying to remember,  I think we opened some 
  documentation
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/468
Nis Jespersen :  Poking you, let's move on to 468, chris?
Chris Abernethy:  Method for referencing stored VCs, assigned to 
  me, I'll get to it ASAP
Orie Steele:  Should be alignment. When you have status list 
  should be able to store, if secure other than data integrity 
  proofs status list must be able to return in correct media type, 
  there aren't tests yet for that. & we wanted to reduce number of 
  media types to just be sd-jwt
Nis Jespersen :  Chris unsure if your pevious comment still 
  applies but, can we conclude we're not doing that?
Chris Abernethy:  Old, should just confirm we did what we were 
  going to do in initial suggestion
Orie Steele:  Agree, at a certain point close because stale, too 
  much to read and no longer actionability
Chris Abernethy:  Add pending close, give me another week to 
  confirm what want to confirm?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/567
Nis Jespersen :  Good call, adding note
Orie Steele:  We did this, ping him to confirm and close if it's 
  been done
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/574
Nis Jespersen :  574, Russell
Nis Jespersen :  Still want to do these
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/575
Orie Steele:  Not cwt, look into sign1, 
  https://w3c.github.io/vc-jose-cose/#with-cose
Orie Steele:  Good to provide respec guidance encouraging client 
  to request format. but also good guidance to let server respond 
  with whatever they'd like
Nis Jespersen :  So close this one? as it doesn't have to do with 
  server implementation?
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/576
Nis Jespersen :  Ready for PR, will do the work
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/534
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/533
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/532
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/496
Nis Jespersen :  534, Mahmoud, who dropped as he said. pinging 
  him.
Chris Abernethy:  Iirc came out of giant PR mike did while back, 
  orie requested some issues to not lose track of things changed in 
  spec
Chris Abernethy:  Might be good to re-review respec see how much 
  is still relevant
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/531
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/589
Nis Jespersen :  589 From manu, align workflows in vc api and 
  trace, anyone familiar?
Orie Steele:  If we moved to more compact formats or other 
  security mechanisms, how much vc-api still relevant.
Nis Jespersen :  Isn't it more for them to align with us? If it 
  isn't, are we just using same term to describe two different 
  things?
Orie Steele:  Some historical context arnd work item. Original 
  vc-api didn't support any of our interop APIs. Interop work item 
  created to work on these APIs. Then they made incompatible 
  version of same APIs. Good to have diversity, but when you get to 
  standardization that's when you should aim at alignment.
Nis Jespersen :  Made comment, "discussed, no significant 
  interest"
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/589
Orie Steele:  Just specify only coming from transmute. Unsure if 
  openlink has implementation ted but open to comment as well.
Chris Abernethy:  In agreement with orie, opening can of worms to 
  do this right now
Orie Steele:  Ok say that, but comment transmute and mesur don't 
  plan on engaging in effort to perform alignment
Nis Jespersen :  Unsure if this is just my understanding, but I 
  think mahmoud is more invested in vc api than the rest of us.
Chris Abernethy:  I can do minutes
