[2023-09-19T17:31:26.370Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-09-19T17:31:26.370Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-09-19T17:31:27.138Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-09-19T17:31:27.348Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2023-09-19T17:31:35.272Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	present+
[2023-09-19T17:31:49.033Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2023-09-19T17:32:01.697Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-09-19T17:32:09.449Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2023-09-19T17:33:02.346Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-09-19T17:33:35.698Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2023-09-19T17:33:36.387Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-09-19T17:33:36.388Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-09-19T17:33:42.254Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	scribe+
[2023-09-19T17:34:57.587Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/871
[2023-09-19T17:35:43.396Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/872
[2023-09-19T17:37:05.114Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/873
[2023-09-19T17:38:41.296Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: diving into interop

no PRs, vocab, 3, all me

first 871, removes bit on recommendation on type of IDs. Objections? merging

872, email test report, moving some of the identifiers up top; adding site name; removing ship to (same as customer)

everyone good? merging

873 something I stumbled upon, consigning two packing lists, BoL instead of shipping. Objections? merging
[2023-09-19T17:38:53.946Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: work to be done on waybill?
[2023-09-19T17:39:34.483Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: not inlined, how we like to inline docs. Based on iata's very elaborate reqs, aligns very well to iata paper template. That part's solid
[2023-09-19T17:39:51.305Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Mahmoud: so some work on internal structure we're using, but pretty in line with reqs of paper doc
[2023-09-19T17:39:55.410Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: yes, why?
[2023-09-19T17:40:11.083Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: a customer asked, brought up iata airwaybill
[2023-09-19T17:40:35.490Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2023-09-19T17:40:35.861Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: yeah, never been tested in wild but a lot of stuff, aligned with reqs, safe to point them at that
[2023-09-19T17:40:45.237Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/530
[2023-09-19T17:41:10.820Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: least recently updated issues interop

530, contract acknonwledgements, mahmoud?
[2023-09-19T17:41:17.374Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-09-19T17:41:28.839Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: 10 issues all straightfwd, rephrase or restructure etc., haven't found time
[2023-09-19T17:41:41.819Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/503
[2023-09-19T17:41:48.023Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: pinging you on ticket

503, chris?
[2023-09-19T17:42:46.736Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: been out of office, don't think anything needed, ready for PR
[2023-09-19T17:42:47.686Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/482
[2023-09-19T17:42:57.246Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: 482, chris?
[2023-09-19T17:43:31.465Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: oh, marked pending vc 2.0 upgrade. remove assignee mahmoud?
[2023-09-19T17:43:45.557Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: keep, happy to stay on it and do it, just hold off
[2023-09-19T17:43:54.230Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/506
[2023-09-19T17:44:17.084Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: 506, mike, to orie. Orie, anything you need?
[2023-09-19T17:45:25.259Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: no, blocked by VC 2.0 work I think. Ik want to support, some crypto algs want to rec, know what they are, could put text around this now... could address without adding examples, "sig base securing mechanisms rec'd to use base [?] or stronger"
[2023-09-19T17:45:35.250Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: so don't put 2.0 label?
[2023-09-19T17:46:00.371Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: mark as ready for PR, just needs respec text to close
[2023-09-19T17:46:09.931Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/552
[2023-09-19T17:46:38.190Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/479
[2023-09-19T17:46:54.216Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: 552, me, adding interop test for gs1 credentials. Pinging myself, also ready for PR

479, from Chris, not assigned to anyone
[2023-09-19T17:47:26.161Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Chris: placeholder for us to update openapi spec, have some examples where content of signed items mmodified for reasons but sigs not regenerated, so examples not internally consistent so should be updated
[2023-09-19T17:47:37.450Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: we don't sign examples anymore, on vocab
[2023-09-19T17:47:54.806Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: possible things have changed since opened, if have could investigate and close
[2023-09-19T17:48:12.672Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: so, duplicating testing across interop & vocab?
[2023-09-19T17:48:47.049Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: not to do with testing, it's bc including examples in openapi texts for requests. If someone actually tries examples and it doesn't do what wants
[2023-09-19T17:48:55.885Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: wait for 2.0, use those examples
[2023-09-19T17:49:03.998Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: so adding wait for 2.0 label
[2023-09-19T17:50:42.424Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: still on 479, says soemthing on schemas, if any req on proof for yaml files that needs to be addressed, cause that'll block 2.0 - what comment from 1 month ago says

Don't want yaml schema constraints on proof property as member of VC. Leave it open so not stumbling over proofs present/not, diff vals. I think we've learned from advances in data integrity, let it handled how will be handled, let proof property be present but don't add constraints
[2023-09-19T17:50:49.243Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: agree but not sure it applies here
[2023-09-19T17:51:00.953Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: these aren't examples in specs, they're in openapi
[2023-09-19T17:51:12.729Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: would recommend not having examples in openapi with proofs
[2023-09-19T17:51:21.243Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: how test creds verify if no proof
[2023-09-19T17:51:44.616Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: still testing v1. I understand v2 we remove, but for now we keep?
[2023-09-19T17:52:02.867Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: my understanding, not try and support v1 + v2, at some pt we make decision to switch all
[2023-09-19T17:52:21.983Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: but today supporting v1. I think until that day should stay in examples
[2023-09-19T17:52:31.420Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: so chris no action item there if all on same page
[2023-09-19T17:52:41.383Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: so we leave as-is with incorrect?
[2023-09-19T17:52:57.265Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: suggest we regen proofs, but no action item on removing proofs today
[2023-09-19T17:53:07.840Z]	<nis>	+1
[2023-09-19T17:53:12.187Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: would just leave as broken, won't matter, unnecessary work
[2023-09-19T17:53:24.700Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: so close won't fix?
[2023-09-19T17:53:29.035Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: yeah let's do that
[2023-09-19T17:53:46.613Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/359
[2023-09-19T17:53:53.735Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: any objections? great

Next 359, chris?
[2023-09-19T17:54:27.219Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: old one, placeholder to add conformance testing for cred status endpts

yeah non work been done
[2023-09-19T17:54:30.832Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-09-19T17:54:36.011Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: do we have interop testing on creds status?
[2023-09-19T17:54:41.499Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: not recalling
[2023-09-19T17:55:03.985Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: not do any work bc know going to be bunch of work on v2 with status list changes
[2023-09-19T17:55:06.734Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: agree
[2023-09-19T17:55:17.321Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: so don't close but mark v2, wait until
[2023-09-19T17:55:21.200Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: seconded
[2023-09-19T17:55:36.325Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: so removing 'ready for pr", adding "vc 2.0"
[2023-09-19T17:55:42.264Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/483
[2023-09-19T17:55:49.921Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: 483, mahmoud?
[2023-09-19T17:57:17.353Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/554
[2023-09-19T17:57:19.664Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	mahmoud: were testing for msg content, thought we resolved this? did resolution we shouldn't care what message is, just structure? & I think tests currently don't care. Ping me to search?
[2023-09-19T17:57:59.533Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/460
[2023-09-19T17:58:05.067Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: 554, will find time for it, pinging myself

460, chris?
[2023-09-19T17:58:57.622Z]	<Mahmoud>	Apologies need to drop off now.
[2023-09-19T17:59:23.532Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: trying to remember,  I think we opened some documentation

I think we added to respec, at behest of orie and mahmoud, last question was if there's any format should be represented, have not done any work
[2023-09-19T17:59:27.847Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/468
[2023-09-19T17:59:35.580Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: poking you, let's move on to 468, chris?
[2023-09-19T18:00:33.827Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: method for referencing stored VCs, assigned to me, I'll get to it ASAP
[2023-09-19T18:01:12.804Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-09-19T18:02:16.641Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-09-19T18:02:31.535Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: should be alignment. When you have status list should be able to store, if secure other than data integrity proofs status list must be able to return in correct media type, there aren't tests yet for that. & we wanted to reduce number of media types to just be sd-jwt
[2023-09-19T18:02:51.935Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: chris unsure if your pevious comment still applies but, can we conclude we're not doing that?
[2023-09-19T18:03:19.114Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: old, should just confirm we did what we were going to do in initial suggestion
[2023-09-19T18:03:40.207Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: agree, at a certain point close because stale, too much to read and no longer actionability
[2023-09-19T18:03:53.635Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: add pending close, give me another week to confirm what want to confirm?
[2023-09-19T18:04:33.984Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/567
[2023-09-19T18:04:56.967Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: good call, adding note

moving on, 567, from isaac, use a custom trace interop user agent

assigned himself
[2023-09-19T18:05:14.655Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: we did this, ping him to confirm and close if it's been done
[2023-09-19T18:05:48.389Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/574
[2023-09-19T18:05:52.432Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: 574, russell
[2023-09-19T18:06:49.995Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	russell: still want to do these
[2023-09-19T18:08:12.684Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/575
[2023-09-19T18:08:14.716Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: not cwt, look into sign1, https://w3c.github.io/vc-jose-cose/#with-cose
[2023-09-19T18:08:22.461Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-09-19T18:09:43.189Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: good to provide respec guidance encouraging client to request format. but also good guidance to let server respond with whatever they'd like
[2023-09-19T18:10:00.496Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	russell: so close this one? as it doesn't have to do with server implementation?
[2023-09-19T18:10:07.603Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/576
[2023-09-19T18:11:10.105Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-09-19T18:11:15.185Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	russell: ready for PR, will do the work
[2023-09-19T18:11:21.186Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/534
[2023-09-19T18:11:57.936Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/533
[2023-09-19T18:12:29.709Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/532
[2023-09-19T18:12:52.248Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/496
[2023-09-19T18:13:02.980Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: 534, mahmoud, who dropped as he said. pinging him.

533 also mahmoud, pinging again

same 532

chris, 496 from you, clarify best practices for retrieval ownership of data
[2023-09-19T18:13:32.290Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: iirc came out of giant PR mike did while back, orie requested some issues to not lose track of things changed in spec
[2023-09-19T18:14:00.471Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: might be good to re-review respec see how much is still relevant
[2023-09-19T18:14:20.929Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/531
[2023-09-19T18:14:49.268Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/589
[2023-09-19T18:15:39.152Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: 589 from manu, align workflows in vc api and trace, anyone familiar?
[2023-09-19T18:17:49.113Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: if we moved to more compact formats or other security mechanisms, how much vc-api still relevant.

I don't think particularly worth doing [work to get there with compatibility with ccg] but open to hearing thoughts from others

Let's leave comment, as discussed in a call. If someone says "yeah let's do this work to get trace interop compatible with vc api", should comment "there wasn't significant interest in call". I'm not completely opposed to aligning APIs in the future, would like to hear from other implementers in the future. So q is for us, are we planning to implement any of theirs
[2023-09-19T18:18:07.260Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-09-19T18:18:13.249Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: isn't it more for them to align with us? If it isn't, are we just using same term to describe two different things?
[2023-09-19T18:19:16.237Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: some historical context arnd work item. Original vc-api didn't support any of our interop APIs. Interop work item created to work on these APIs. Then they made incompatible version of same APIs. Good to have diversity, but when you get to standardization that's when you should aim at alignment.
[2023-09-19T18:19:42.512Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: made comment, "discussed, no significant interest"
[2023-09-19T18:20:12.557Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/589
[2023-09-19T18:20:14.140Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	Orie: just specify only coming from transmute. Unsure if openlink has implementation ted but open to comment as well.
[2023-09-19T18:20:41.485Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-09-19T18:21:25.351Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: in agreement with orie, opening can of worms to do this right now
[2023-09-19T18:21:51.201Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	orie: ok say that, but comment transmute and mesur don't plan on engaging in effort to perform alignment
[2023-09-19T18:23:30.513Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	nis: unsure if this is just my understanding, but I think mahmoud is more invested in vc api than the rest of us.

End meeting now? Gone through a lot of issues
[2023-09-19T18:23:45.305Z]	<Russell_H_(mesur.io)>	chris: I can do minutes
