[2021-06-08T20:00:10.219Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:00:21.476Z]	<manu>	Chair: Manu
[2021-06-08T20:00:21.531Z]	<Vaishnavi>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:00:24.650Z]	<Sanuja_(Diwala)>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:00:44.642Z]	<manu>	Agenda: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit
[2021-06-08T20:00:45.915Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:00:49.481Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:01:05.312Z]	<manu>	Meeting: Verifiable Credentials HTTP API Task Force
[2021-06-08T20:01:09.458Z]	<Matthieu_Collé>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:01:22.743Z]	<Mike_Varley>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:01:28.298Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:01:58.432Z]	<Sanuja_(Diwala)>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:02:27.782Z]	<Butch_Clark>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:02:41.510Z]	<Matthieu_Collé>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:02:59.076Z]	<Charles_Edebiri>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:03:06.931Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:03:24.436Z]	<manu>	scribe: manu
[2021-06-08T20:04:17.751Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:05:08.615Z]	<manu>	Manu goes over IPR statements.
[2021-06-08T20:05:17.986Z]	<manu>	Manu provides Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jun/0049.html
[2021-06-08T20:06:00.619Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	q+ use case deadline reminder
[2021-06-08T20:06:02.517Z]	<manu>	Juan: Wallet and Credential Interface -- WACIPex specification and profile will be readable by curious parties later this week. There are examples in there, text is more complete and useful for people in there. That might be a useful point of comparison wrt. bootstrapping later today.
[2021-06-08T20:06:07.211Z]	<manu>	ack Eric
[2021-06-08T20:06:31.076Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-presentation-exchange
[2021-06-08T20:06:35.382Z]	<manu>	schuh: Quick reminder to everyone, soft deadline for use cases for next week -- please get those written up -- let Juan or I know about it. Then we'll be moving into the distilling process.
[2021-06-08T20:06:59.218Z]	<manu>	Manu: any other announcements or changes to the agenda.
[2021-06-08T20:07:35.134Z]	<Muhamed_Turkanović_(Blockchain_Lab:UM)>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:08:00.459Z]	<manu>	Manu: Juan provided an agenda, we're going to follow it.
[2021-06-08T20:08:04.227Z]	<manu>	Topic: Report Out on Use Cases
[2021-06-08T20:08:31.574Z]	<Justin_Richer>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:08:38.061Z]	<manu>	Juan: One thing came up when we met this last week -- we were thinking about how these diagrams map to the use cases, and we thought the trust agent use case was a good example, collectively thinking through terminology/mapping and how it relates to the different steps in the flow would help.
[2021-06-08T20:08:43.562Z]	<Orie>	Unrelated announcement... Apple roles out support for SMART on FHIR health VCs.... https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2021/10089/
[2021-06-08T20:09:14.363Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	Joe unfortunately can't make it today due to a minor medical issue
[2021-06-08T20:09:22.713Z]	<manu>	Juan: One comment that Joe Andrieu had was that we were thinking about naming the gray metacategory here, and thinking of division into verifier/issuer/holder... and thinking through use cases where there are more than ... where that real world category of the issuer broke down into multiple real world parties.
[2021-06-08T20:09:34.133Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:10:24.517Z]	<manu>	Juan: ... and thinking about the relationships between them. If this described a shared incentive, shared interest, trust boundary, and we thought maybe one thing worth thinking about would be if these were categories were things we wanted to think about a little bit. That's a bit abstract... We want to think through how parts relate and whether or not the Holder box / Issuer box is part of the confusion.
[2021-06-08T20:10:29.193Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:10:38.722Z]	<manu>	Juan: When you're thinking about bootstrapping, authoring, it might be more helpful.
[2021-06-08T20:11:00.944Z]	<manu>	Juan: We're going to test it working through one use case. If it's useful, great, if it's not, sorry for wasting everyone's time, it was just a hypothesis.
[2021-06-08T20:11:05.598Z]	<manu>	Juan: Any questions?
[2021-06-08T20:11:06.394Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:11:22.163Z]	<manu>	q-
[2021-06-08T20:11:38.835Z]	<manu>	Juan: Does anyone have any thoughts about authorization vs. bootstrapping.
[2021-06-08T20:11:39.448Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:13:18.708Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:13:22.024Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:13:36.676Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-08T20:13:38.608Z]	<manu>	ack adrian
[2021-06-08T20:14:24.711Z]	<manu>	Topic: GNAP, Bootstrapping, and Authentication
[2021-06-08T20:13:35.145Z]	<manu>	Manu: I thought Adrian's comments were interesting... showing up with a token and then how did they get that token.
[2021-06-08T20:14:24.711Z]	<manu>	agropper: The major point I'm trying to make, and I'm glad that Justin is here, he's been editing standards around this point for as long as I've known him. UMA, HEART, GNAP... my point is that it's inconsistent with SSI to presume that in order to control something, someone has to possess it.
[2021-06-08T20:15:09.304Z]	<manu>	agropper: The question that Manu asked, is at what layer of DIF/W3C/SSI protocols discussion that we are involved in, where do we consider this linkage between the controller and the processor to use GDPR terminology, or alice-alice vs alice-bob flows which was the purpose of UMA.
[2021-06-08T20:15:09.556Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MaS6Qs6g_dom_Y66jCWrcck6KJozAS3JZU1aLU6j598/edit#
[2021-06-08T20:16:12.171Z]	<manu>	agropper: I just put a link to a document that I shared w/ CCG Chairs to try and get this conversation about the role of delegation, also talked w/ Christopher Allen, law of agency, again, this idea that the subject (hopefully Self Sovereign Subject), doctors, lawyers, etc. has the right to use those agents.
[2021-06-08T20:16:27.247Z]	<manu>	agropper: if this discussion doesn't belong in VC HTTP API, then we need to go back to CCG and figure out where it does belong.
[2021-06-08T20:16:49.543Z]	<manu>	ack Justin
[2021-06-08T20:17:12.256Z]	<manu>	richer: If you could go back to the message that was on just a second ago... this captures something really important.
[2021-06-08T20:17:31.314Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	VuHappy
[2021-06-08T20:17:37.244Z]	<manu>	richer: This is what Manu was talking about before... there are a few different places that VC HTTP API (which needs a shorter name), where authorization protocols come into play.
[2021-06-08T20:18:17.332Z]	<manu>	richer: How do you protect access to the VC HTTP API itself? How do you use the results of a VC HTTP API (use a VC and communicated efforts that come from that) in the process of deciding whether or not you're going to answer an API call from a different API
[2021-06-08T20:18:42.820Z]	<manu>	richer: And finally, how do you get one of these authorization elements, an access token in the first place... each of these aspects have compelling pieces to it, and they're all pretty different from each other.
[2021-06-08T20:19:08.413Z]	<manu>	richer: From my perspective, the modularity of these different pieces not get crossed with each other. You can solve these things in different ways with different combinations of these technologies.
[2021-06-08T20:19:41.978Z]	<manu>	richer: Some of these things can be used to solve some of these things... so using a VC as an access token format, GNAP doesn't care about format, that gives you some flexibility.
[2021-06-08T20:20:26.385Z]	<manu>	richer: The most compelling connections apply in the bootstrapping process... how do you get this access token in the first place... traditionally, with UMA, bring your own authz server... resource servers will just accept this... but that doesn't happen from all of the trust bootstrapping problems that the real world brings with it.
[2021-06-08T20:21:12.401Z]	<manu>	richer: One of the things that GNAP tries to work on is what sort of thing you can bring to an authorization server to get access to it. In OAuth2 there is some baked in assumption that someone logs into authorization server and gets token.
[2021-06-08T20:22:10.163Z]	<manu>	richer: GNAP tries to move away from that, that's one of the key places that VC HTTP API could use GNAP ... show up at authz server, using VC HTTP API, to determine whether to give them access token and what to put in access token... all decisions can stay inside that coupling between AS and RS and it doesn't have to leak in awkard cross domain ways.
[2021-06-08T20:22:16.702Z]	<manu>	richer: That is possible with UMA, but doesn't fly.
[2021-06-08T20:22:19.837Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:22:43.120Z]	<manu>	richer: There are three main aspects to this depending on where you are in the process wrt. connecting these things and how.
[2021-06-08T20:22:44.170Z]	<Troy_Ronda>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:22:47.687Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q?
[2021-06-08T20:23:00.496Z]	<manu>	ack Adrian
[2021-06-08T20:24:13.906Z]	<manu>	agropper: if people have questions for what Justin just said, I'll step back -- I agree with what Justin said, having worked on UMA for a decade... another way of speaking about it, if people want to react to Justin's perspective... simply put, when that token is presented, to get VC, either token was signed by RS, could be holder, could be anybody, or it was signed by AS.
[2021-06-08T20:25:08.396Z]	<manu>	agropper: As Justin pointed out, the AS is an entity that is trusted by the RS... in OAuth, it's typically the same, in GNAP/UMA it doesn't have to be. If you have that idea in mind, that the token is going to be signed one way or the other, you can layer on top attenuation, or layer scopes, on top of delegation/authz process. Those are secondary.
[2021-06-08T20:25:32.151Z]	<manu>	agropper: Will the issuer accept tokens that only it has signed, or will it accept a token that is signed by an AS... where you bring identity claims and so on.
[2021-06-08T20:25:33.469Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:25:35.232Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:27:07.386Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:27:10.947Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:27:20.656Z]	<Mike_Varley>	manu: +1 to what Justin said and separation of concerns; what would this group like to focus on? the requirement for an auth token on the API, or the overall bootstrap
[2021-06-08T20:27:23.456Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	manu: all that sounds good but segmentation and order of operations
[2021-06-08T20:27:30.621Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	... is what we need to decide here
[2021-06-08T20:27:31.539Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-08T20:27:33.459Z]	<manu>	ack Justin
[2021-06-08T20:27:37.977Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	/me embarassed that mike outscribed me
[2021-06-08T20:28:11.299Z]	<manu>	richer: yes, I agree with the sentiment, that is the first of the three different scenarios that I pointed out, when you're making a call to the VC HTTP API, that API is or can be protected by access tokens and that access token is either contains/dereferencable to security aspects.
[2021-06-08T20:29:10.696Z]	<manu>	richer: My recommendation for that use case is to define things in terms of OAuth Rich Authorization Request, or GNAP mechanism -- multidimensional JSON structures, security profile for certain API, it makes sense that this is the group that would define what that would look like, and you can use it in both OAuth and GNAP and the notion of how you got the token is out of scope, and it should be there.
[2021-06-08T20:29:39.150Z]	<manu>	richer: it allows you to defer how exactly you get back those access structures... you could bake them into the token, or you can do introspection, or chuck it in a database and look it up -- that's all separable.
[2021-06-08T20:29:49.657Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q?
[2021-06-08T20:29:55.242Z]	<manu>	richer: Important that modules are well defined, you don't necessarily have to cross them all over the place.
[2021-06-08T20:30:19.488Z]	<manu>	richer: Now how does a VC HTTP API decides that it accepts a certain type of token, different question from how you get the token, that should remain separable questions.
[2021-06-08T20:30:58.427Z]	<manu>	agropper: One question to both Manu and Justin, to what they were both saying -- the way I like to think about it -- there are no identity-based claims associated with Manu's proposal. The token itself has things related to scope, as Justin made clear, but not to identity.
[2021-06-08T20:31:05.761Z]	<Justin_Richer>	note: not scope, RAR. Analogous but different
[2021-06-08T20:31:12.592Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:31:19.761Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	ack adrian
[2021-06-08T20:31:35.483Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:31:41.584Z]	<manu>	agropper: There will be corner cases, where nature of client, the bearer of the user attached to the client, the side cases that are not that important -- they need to be managed. Authorization server sees identity related claims, and issuer does not (as defined by Manu).
[2021-06-08T20:31:44.269Z]	<manu>	ack Juan
[2021-06-08T20:32:37.160Z]	<manu>	Juan: I'd like to time box this a bit, don't know that Mike can come every week and did show up to do his use case today -- unless someone is volunteering to do the PRs for making sure that everyone else's work doesn't preclude this sort of token -- feels like it's listing design goals/constraints... might not be right time to do that.
[2021-06-08T20:32:41.632Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:32:46.412Z]	<manu>	ack Justin
[2021-06-08T20:33:29.891Z]	<manu>	richer: I will be quick -- what I'm talking about is not just design goals, understanding what problem you're solving, what I'm seeing is that people talking about similar but fundamentally different problems, that's not a good thing wrt. making progress. That kind of stuff is important to resolve/address use cases.
[2021-06-08T20:34:14.974Z]	<manu>	richer: Identity claims -- that's what this group should be defining... that you get token, dereference... what kinds of things do you need to do that, how to serve that request... one of several ways that could fit together... becareful what you talk about.
[2021-06-08T20:34:19.420Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	ack adrian
[2021-06-08T20:35:04.084Z]	<Orie>	link
[2021-06-08T20:35:08.134Z]	<Orie>	to source
[2021-06-08T20:35:22.086Z]	<manu>	agropper: I've started writing code on Github, I'm putting up a protected OAuth protected, JWT-protected VC -- then work done by Spruce, and goal is to show the delta between the OAuth as done in FAST API and the minimal implementation of GNAP to do the same thing (in the same FAST API) CouchDB as database... if someone woul dlike to play with this, please help and let's work together.
[2021-06-08T20:35:22.897Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q?
[2021-06-08T20:36:06.188Z]	<manu>	Juan: People that are interested in prototyping, please check out that repo and contribute.
[2021-06-08T20:36:27.585Z]	<manu>	Topic: Trust Agent Discussion
[2021-06-08T20:36:37.977Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	ack mike
[2021-06-08T20:36:44.584Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q+ mike
[2021-06-08T20:36:47.933Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(openlinksw.com)>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:36:49.101Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	ack mike
[2021-06-08T20:36:49.563Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	https://github.com/agropper/OGNAP
[2021-06-08T20:37:08.619Z]	<manu>	varley: I'm happy to go through it, I do have a preface -- link it to conversation around authorization. I did write this use case with the hope that it's out of scope. We're able to design the API in a way that enables this use case w/o specific endpoints.
[2021-06-08T20:37:27.714Z]	<manu>	varley: Someone may layer in a trust agent, trust proxy, use case without specific API endpoints... because I wasn't sure, I wrote it down
[2021-06-08T20:37:57.533Z]	<manu>	varley: The use case is that, in an open world of SSI, the trust policy is up to the verifier to define.
[2021-06-08T20:38:53.031Z]	<manu>	varley: It may be beneficial for a verifier to outsource that trust, to a trust agent, imagine you have an entity -- small business, accept provincial ID documents, but don't have connections or IT staff to keep up proper identifiers, changing world that is decentralized identifier, so I want to hook up to trust agent service that is going to do that for me. if they tell me this DID is good, I trust them, good to go.
[2021-06-08T20:39:12.910Z]	<manu>	varley: I will continue processing the information. I have a sequence diagram that we can go through, to connect it to previous conversation.
[2021-06-08T20:39:57.268Z]	<manu>	varley: Holder has set up a connection with a verifier, in a session has obtained authorization to provide presentation to verifier. Holder now has permission to call an API, key to verifiers lockbox to drop off a message... content of that message, presentation of ID, still left to verifier to process, meet its trust policy,
[2021-06-08T20:40:25.651Z]	<manu>	varley: Is it from a provincial government, or from a library... there is an internal policy decision there.
[2021-06-08T20:40:28.861Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:40:39.164Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:40:50.803Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	/me can't chew gum, find the mute button, AND screenshare :(
[2021-06-08T20:41:37.600Z]	<Mike_Varley>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:41:42.406Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-06-08T20:41:45.181Z]	<manu>	ack gropper
[2021-06-08T20:41:54.452Z]	<Justin_Richer>	ack adrian
[2021-06-08T20:41:55.388Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	present+
[2021-06-08T20:42:13.442Z]	<manu>	agropper: Listening to presentation, you're describing a health information exchange, federation, two jobs relative to verifiers... number 1, health information exchange does patient matching.
[2021-06-08T20:42:53.216Z]	<manu>	agropper: number 2, the health information exchange, acts as a federation, so in effect it limits the risk of the verifier, once verifier has accepted a contract to join the federation, they have a safe harbor, they can blame the HIE.
[2021-06-08T20:42:58.060Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	ack muhamed
[2021-06-08T20:42:58.117Z]	<manu>	agropper: is that a fair summary?
[2021-06-08T20:43:10.659Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q?
[2021-06-08T20:44:13.336Z]	<manu>	muhamed: I wanted to ask a question, trust agent per-se, in europe we are using one service, European blockchain infrastructure, holds a trusted issuer registry -- DIDs of accreddited institutions are hold, and only used once authorized, using those services as a trust agent... there is a DID, we go to infrastructure, is this issuer in the trusted issuer registry, if it is, it's an accreddited registry, is this the principle here?
[2021-06-08T20:44:20.206Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	ack mike
[2021-06-08T20:44:51.728Z]	<manu>	varley: Adrian, federation, yes the trust agent would represent a federation of trusted entities, verifiers could mix/match, but yes, similar to concept of relying on federation.
[2021-06-08T20:45:25.355Z]	<manu>	varley: With regards to registry, a trust agent would use registry to implement its policies, it would rely on registry... A trust agent could use registry, filter it, combine it, etc.
[2021-06-08T20:45:28.431Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:45:31.174Z]	<manu>	varley: That registry would play a key role there.
[2021-06-08T20:45:35.754Z]	<Muhamed_Turkanović_(Blockchain_Lab:UM)>	so as a orchestrator
[2021-06-08T20:45:38.107Z]	<Muhamed_Turkanović_(Blockchain_Lab:UM)>	?
[2021-06-08T20:46:45.912Z]	<manu>	varley: Back to the API - yes, you characterized it, if we designed the API endpoints in a way, as a holder I can call present credential what as verifier describes as HTTP API endpoint, and that goes through trust agent first and then to verifier, the holder doesn't need to know it's calling trust agent or verifier directly, API is agnostic to that, authorizations that allow calls to go through, then we can focus on just what those API endpoints look like, and we don't have to build in extra logic for proxy, trust agent, etc.
[2021-06-08T20:46:55.911Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	q?
[2021-06-08T20:47:04.180Z]	<manu>	varley: I don't have to go through extra authorization dance, that's what I'm hoping for...
[2021-06-08T20:47:05.192Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:47:37.543Z]	<manu>	varley: Can we keep this goal of using trust poxy in flow and trying to ensure it doesn't disrupt the API too much, cause extra endpoints to be created, or if they do, we keep them in the conversation.
[2021-06-08T20:48:38.215Z]	<manu>	agropper: I think this is useful -- although, Mike didn't answer my other part of my question -- the patient matching... this is critical to us as a VC SSI community, we have made the assumption that knowing that issuer/verifier are both talking about same person, same subject, of VC is seen as technical thing, not as something that requires a Trust Agent.
[2021-06-08T20:49:34.982Z]	<manu>	agropper: The Health Information Exchange allows the issuer/verifier symmetrical, outsources patient matching as best they can... not just a trust federation issue. It's an identity matching, ZKP, link secrets, I just wanted again to highlight the fact that Mike's trust agent case might or might not have both of these characteristics.
[2021-06-08T20:49:45.666Z]	<Mike_Varley>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:49:48.021Z]	<manu>	agropper: They are two dimensions that are orthogonal.
[2021-06-08T20:49:51.206Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	ack adrian
[2021-06-08T20:49:54.723Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	ack manu
[2021-06-08T20:49:59.458Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	+1
[2021-06-08T20:51:30.315Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:52:05.871Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-06-08T20:52:10.026Z]	<manu>	ack varley
[2021-06-08T20:52:17.923Z]	<Justin_Richer>	ack mike
[2021-06-08T20:52:17.982Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	ack mike
[2021-06-08T20:52:33.690Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	An example of separation of identity match vs. trust federation https://github.com/agropper/OGNAP/blob/main/static/QFVC-QR.png
[2021-06-08T20:52:36.132Z]	<manu>	varley: So, Adrian, for your patient match question, I would say that is another function outside of this specific use case or APIs requirements.
[2021-06-08T20:53:03.348Z]	<manu>	varley: Two sets of data, name address date of birth, DID Presentations with link secrets, am I dealing with the same person -- it's another function that an identity network would have to build.
[2021-06-08T20:53:57.752Z]	<manu>	varley: Wrt. to Manu's comment, getting to the concrete for what we want to do for authorization is key -- I feel as though, we're getting to the point with the Trust Agent concept, good use case, keep it in mind, but let's focus on the core functions of the issuer/holder/verifier API and do our best to not code for special cases, even one as interesting as a Trust Agent.
[2021-06-08T20:54:08.334Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	ack adrian
[2021-06-08T20:54:49.905Z]	<Orie>	I would prefer to not see GNAP included in the respect for this API.

I would prefer to see GNAP be developed on another call, I don't think its helpful to pull in GNAP into this work item.
[2021-06-08T20:54:58.433Z]	<Orie>	respec *
[2021-06-08T20:55:19.920Z]	<Orie>	Nothing against GNAP, but I don't think thats what this call is about.
[2021-06-08T20:55:31.403Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	or HTTP APIs?
[2021-06-08T20:55:42.886Z]	<manu>	gropper: To clarify this for both Manu and Mike, the link I put in the chat is this orthogonality that I am talking about -- it's an example of it, this is a vaccine credential, issuer is someone that vaccinated someone, verifier needs to know w/o needing to know... vaccinator has checked -- in a standard QR Code, which is recognizable by the verifier, but because it's 32x32x4 it can be hashed reliably into the VC, this works on paper w/o blockchains/central registry, this is orthogonality, once you introduce a trust agent, you can separate out these two roles.
[2021-06-08T20:56:22.159Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	q?
[2021-06-08T20:56:25.629Z]	<manu>	gropper: The Level of Assurance, as part of federation, what I'm doing here is a hack, admittedly, LOA of security chain is different from trust that vaccinator is using the right vaccine and so on.
[2021-06-08T20:56:31.094Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	ack justin
[2021-06-08T20:56:58.300Z]	<manu>	richer: To add on to what Manu and Mike were saying, the separation of these bits is important, if there is a policy engine to make these decisions, or an if statement, that should all be totally ok.
[2021-06-08T20:57:23.607Z]	<manu>	richer: From an interop perspective, having a way to describe what it is that you're asking for an dallowing and how you process it can be handled in a bunch of separate ways.
[2021-06-08T20:58:09.252Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	q+ time check
[2021-06-08T20:58:10.471Z]	<manu>	richer: it would be useful for this group to define Rich Authorization Request objects, that's from GNAP... use that type of structure, define those as you define your API, and you're effectively defining a reasonable security layer w/ the API you're defining. This is separate from how you process VCs and everything else.
[2021-06-08T20:58:41.318Z]	<manu>	Schuh: Reminder, get use cases in the more detailed the better.
[2021-06-08T20:58:44.870Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	ack eric
[2021-06-08T20:59:01.910Z]	<Orie>	-1 to "using GNAP" or "RAR"... I can live with OAuth 2.0 for now... maybe when GNAP is finished it would be appropriate to use.
[2021-06-08T20:59:38.928Z]	<Orie>	I am a big fan of GNAP moving forward without this call tripping all over understanding it
[2021-06-08T20:59:48.140Z]	<manu>	manu: We need to keep moving this conversation forward asynchronously. I have been getting a number of frustrated emails over the past several weeks wrt. the speed at which we're moving. Let's move things forward on the mailing list, talking more is the only way we understand where the other is coming from and is what enables us to focus and move forward. Try to focus on things that we can put out of scope, be concrete. We'll be running proposals and polls next time to try and constrain the focus/discussion in the group.
[2021-06-08T20:59:48.140Z]	<Juan_Caballero>	+1, to manu
[2021-06-08T21:00:13.073Z]	<Mike_Varley>	thanks all
