[2022-09-20T17:27:56.273Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	present+
[2022-09-20T17:29:41.229Z]	<Benjamin_Collins>	present+
[2022-09-20T17:31:02.719Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2022-09-20T17:31:12.195Z]	<Isaac_Byrne_(Transmute)>	present+
[2022-09-20T17:31:12.698Z]	<nis>	present+
[2022-09-20T17:31:31.418Z]	<vivien>	present+
[2022-09-20T17:33:01.148Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2022-09-20T17:33:01.149Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2022-09-20T17:33:10.032Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: And just a quick note Isaac is an engineer from transient and I invited.
[2022-09-20T17:33:16.683Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: Listening on the call to get some insight on how the process works.
[2022-09-20T17:33:18.911Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Excellent welcome Isaac.
[2022-09-20T17:33:35.138Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: You're right you're right two weeks ago I missed last week and it totally blanked.
[2022-09-20T17:33:46.560Z]	<Paul_Dietrich_GS1>	present+
[2022-09-20T17:33:52.239Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2022-09-20T17:33:58.209Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah that works to the the last one could have used some some in-depth review and changing I think at one point I had already swearing at us this somewhat humorous.
[2022-09-20T17:34:12.847Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: Don't worry or wear like a sailor anyways but I'm not not not the way the transcriber wrote the.
[2022-09-20T17:34:21.862Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: All right yeah I'm ready to start if you guys are ready this one.
[2022-09-20T17:34:28.863Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Agenda: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/blob/main/AGENDA.md
[2022-09-20T17:34:39.171Z]	<Transcriber>	Paul_Dietrich_GS1: Yeah they're on pull Dietrich I'm from gs1 us in their Innovation team and we've been kind of doing some experimenting and proof of concepts with verifiable credentials and want to explore how to use them in traceability.
[2022-09-20T17:34:44.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Awesome welcome Paul.
[2022-09-20T17:35:02.772Z]	<Transcriber>	Paul_Dietrich_GS1: I am not on the standard size to just when us has a bunch of different groups and I'm on the Innovation side of that I don't work super closely with EPC is but I'm certainly following what's going on there with 2.0.
[2022-09-20T17:35:23.659Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	Topic: IP Note, Agenda Review, Scribe Selection
[2022-09-20T17:35:38.387Z]	<Transcriber>	Paul_Dietrich_GS1: Yeah I bet it's several those last one I'd covid so I couldn't make it there but there were folks from the US standards group so that's standards I think Andy was probably there yep and also folks from ggs one Innovation team or their to or the IT team I think we engaged Our IT team recently to build some verifiable credential based prototype so it's getting to be a larger group of gs1 us.
[2022-09-20T17:35:38.824Z]	<Transcriber>	Paul_Dietrich_GS1:  thank you.
[2022-09-20T17:35:40.117Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: Were you at IIW?
[2022-09-20T17:36:05.534Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay so let's get started so standard IP note for these meetings as anyone can participate in these calls however all substantive contributed contributors any ccg items must be members of the ccg with full IP our agreement signed information about and links to the required license agreements can be found in the meeting agenda which was linked above.
[2022-09-20T17:36:11.814Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2022-09-20T17:36:22.269Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/399
[2022-09-20T17:36:30.187Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Trace interop week so as usual we will begin with Tres interop pull requests in Greece recently updated order the first pull request is PR number 399 this one is opened by Miss and if I understand it correctly the next move here was a.
[2022-09-20T17:36:34.954Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Don't I'm thinking of something else Miss wanting to take this one away.
[2022-09-20T17:36:46.568Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I sorted by least recently updated.
[2022-09-20T17:36:56.133Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I think I got yelled at by Ted at one point for doing it the wrong way.
[2022-09-20T17:37:09.104Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: Lets do it in normal order, i.e. oldest first
[2022-09-20T17:37:17.575Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay and normal order is that sort by oldest.
[2022-09-20T17:37:25.609Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/382
[2022-09-20T17:37:28.132Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay very good thank let us begin with three a to miss this one is yours.
[2022-09-20T17:38:01.995Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: taking out status code from body, it was redundant.
[2022-09-20T17:38:16.548Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Awesome it looks like we have three reviews and I do remember this one and this one looks good to me so if we have no objections I will go ahead and merge 382 emerging now.
[2022-09-20T17:38:23.828Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And that is complete.
[2022-09-20T17:38:37.558Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/390
[2022-09-20T17:38:55.032Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So the next issue in our list is one of a set of issues this one is mine and this is related to removing the use of also known as because we now have the service and points to figure out where issues where to go for a presentation and points and we also are using did web for resolution and.
[2022-09-20T17:38:55.752Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Re and weave.
[2022-09-20T17:39:09.649Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So these sets of tickets are for removing all of the various references to also known as from the different parts of the repo the first one happens to be cleaning up the open API spec.
[2022-09-20T17:39:17.459Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So I've got two.
[2022-09-20T17:39:35.169Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Approvals here looks like Mike and Lori have not had a chance to do so or he did put in a change request to update the respect doc but there is actually a separate PR that handles that.
[2022-09-20T17:39:41.345Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: Yeah and Ori has the conflict right now I just paint them in chat but not sure if he's looking.
[2022-09-20T17:39:50.433Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Got it I requested a new review from him not too long ago so you probably just didn't have time to do it yet.
[2022-09-20T17:39:59.537Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So I'm happy to leave this one as is and come back so that or I can remove his change request.
[2022-09-20T17:40:37.961Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay in that case I will go ahead and merge pull request number 390.
[2022-09-20T17:40:50.224Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And that has been marched next one in the list is 391.
[2022-09-20T17:40:51.765Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/391
[2022-09-20T17:40:52.298Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: We should merge it anyway, we have a nother PR tacklign Orie's request
[2022-09-20T17:40:57.242Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: I agree
[2022-09-20T17:41:05.035Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This is part of the same set of tickets and this is for modifying the conformance sweet to remove references to also known as again we have.
[2022-09-20T17:41:29.672Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: You reviews and this is a rather small change in that instead of going to also known as and selecting the element at index 1 to determine where we should excuse me what we should use as a credential issuer now we simply use the ID from the document.
[2022-09-20T17:41:38.388Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And given that we have to.
[2022-09-20T17:41:46.495Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Approvals I suggest we go ahead and merge this if there are no objections I will emerge PR 391.
[2022-09-20T17:41:57.868Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Excellence so that is merged.
[2022-09-20T17:42:02.290Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: This is important and a positive step
[2022-09-20T17:42:31.626Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Next one in the list is 392 and this is the same sort of thing but this is from the interop tests and this one touches a lot more files because we used to do a lot of testing to make sure that the also known element was present in a did document and that it conforms to the right length and had the right contents we no longer need to do that since we're not using it so there's a lot of removals in updating of.
[2022-09-20T17:42:32.351Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Patient in this PR.
[2022-09-20T17:42:40.686Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And son is got three approvals thank you Miss.
[2022-09-20T17:42:47.701Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And if no one objects I'll go ahead and merge pull request 392.
[2022-09-20T17:42:53.528Z]	<Mahmoud>	s/ patients/ changes/
[2022-09-20T17:43:07.771Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah 392 has been merged and the next one is 396.
[2022-09-20T17:43:13.086Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/396
[2022-09-20T17:43:17.264Z]	<Mahmoud>	/s/ and son/ and this one/
[2022-09-20T17:43:40.747Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Appear 396 this is for making the type property of the credential status node when credential status is present in the options object when posting to credentials issue so this is different than other use of credentials as in the status update and point.
[2022-09-20T17:44:08.770Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: That this was a breaking change on your side to transmute it wasn't really clear how that could be so I wanted to ask for some some clarification that didn't get entered in Horry subsequently act ask for a lot more information that Muhammad was kind enough to add in here regarding how this is treated and various other apis.
[2022-09-20T17:44:12.650Z]	<Mahmoud>	q+
[2022-09-20T17:44:14.948Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: We still have change request in here from Ari.
[2022-09-20T17:44:20.463Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And Mahmoud has an additional change request that has not been addressed.
[2022-09-20T17:44:31.859Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Can you clarify what you mean there are you suggesting that these should be the same shape in the same way that already suggested that.
[2022-09-20T17:45:58.136Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I agree with you I think that we should hold off on this I'll add a comment to modify the other place where credential status type is relevant and make it required there.
[2022-09-20T17:46:00.922Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: With you moments.
[2022-09-20T17:46:10.238Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud:  There are two places where credential status type are relevant, the other one should be included in this PR as it shouldn't be a heavy lift.
[2022-09-20T17:46:28.692Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Hunt's that until next week.
[2022-09-20T17:46:37.708Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay the next issue in our list pull request excuse me is 399.
[2022-09-20T17:46:40.913Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/399
[2022-09-20T17:46:53.446Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And this one is mrs. and I believe this is the one I was thinking of earlier where our next step oh my gosh I got it wrong again I apologize this carry on carry on.
[2022-09-20T17:47:44.591Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: This adds discovery that we have on interop, and adds it to conformance. This allows us to do the same thing we do on interop and adds it to conformance. if its the right approach is somethign im open about
[2022-09-20T17:47:57.894Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So I'm looking at the the ticket and I think we discussed this two weeks ago where we suggested that the proper order of operations here would be to First modify the Respec before we PR on this am I remembering that correctly.
[2022-09-20T17:48:06.403Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: that is right, we want a nice picture of what is going on.
[2022-09-20T17:48:28.751Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So the question then is should we merge this or should we hold off on that and I also this particular set of tests in the conformance is set up so that each request is a full sort of a full conformance test and this.
[2022-09-20T17:48:29.255Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Change would make.
[2022-09-20T17:48:45.018Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Two requests are required to be set up in Postman like that versus putting something in the utils in order to get in cash the did document which I think might be a better approach.
[2022-09-20T17:48:58.019Z]	<Mahmoud>	s/cash/cache
[2022-09-20T17:49:10.124Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: I think the the main thing here is the did URL or the did web you know resolve the URL can be arbitrary the you know the service presentation and point could be arbitrary everything else should probably just be an API api-based.
[2022-09-20T17:49:27.110Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: But I think the I think that's something we won't want to confirm and have a nice picture on on the respect documents reveal the ground ourselves to make sure we have we're looking at picture when we make these decisions.
[2022-09-20T17:49:39.916Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay so it sounds like consensus for the moment is perhaps we should wait for the respect to be completely updated before we continue discussion on this PR.
[2022-09-20T17:49:49.085Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: yes
Mahmoud: yes
Ben: yes
[2022-09-20T17:49:52.257Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: Yeah that's more than happy to keep reminding me.
[2022-09-20T17:50:10.272Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: How am I on my own.
[2022-09-20T17:50:32.940Z]	<Mahmoud>	s/ how am i / /
[2022-09-20T17:50:44.023Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah I think you know you hinted at this earlier in the ticket but if we right now we're making calls to I think did Json art or the resolution in a number of places versus just cashing it and doing it once and I think we may want to combine that with.
[2022-09-20T17:50:57.496Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Using that cash value to get the endpoint is you've done here I think that needs a little bit of thought I'm not really prepared to give you a full answer on that at the moment.
[2022-09-20T17:51:07.315Z]	<Mahmoud>	s/art or/ or
[2022-09-20T17:51:14.980Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Fair enough all right so let's carry on our next next PR is 400.
[2022-09-20T17:51:17.451Z]	<Mahmoud>	s/cashing/cacheing
[2022-09-20T17:51:17.863Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/400
[2022-09-20T17:51:45.815Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And this one is a little bit longer than some of the other ones this is a work in progress to add conformance testing on the credentials verify and point in this one was interesting because part of the problem we ran into was you can't really mutate a credential that's a VC and send it as is an expected to fail because the values in the VC portion are not conforming.
[2022-09-20T17:51:46.174Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy:  because what you've done.
[2022-09-20T17:51:46.899Z]	<Benjamin_Collins>	- did:web url can be arbitrary
- presentation url can be arbitrary (discovered from did:web)
- everything else should be from API_BASE_URL
- we need a picture to show this relationship with examples
[2022-09-20T17:52:19.329Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Invalidated the signature on that VC so although you may be getting a failure response you may be getting it for the wrong reason so I had to write a script that would actually create bad VCS and put valid signatures over them and then send that and use that in the test and is a little bit of back and forth in the comments with some of the folks from digital bizarre on how to best accomplish that and we got most of the way.
[2022-09-20T17:52:19.804Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy:  towards some of the tests are not.
[2022-09-20T17:52:22.165Z]	<Mahmoud>	q+
[2022-09-20T17:52:51.628Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Running in that way because you can't really modify a type property or parts of the context in certain ways and still be able to sign over that credential so while those may fail because the signature is bad they do still fail so that's a bit of something that needs to be addressed at some point so yeah this is this is a work in progress on the.
[2022-09-20T17:52:52.052Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy:  - testing for credentials.
[2022-09-20T17:52:56.658Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Include any of the positive testing.
[2022-09-20T17:53:07.077Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: That being said I think we should still merge this in order to progress in the right direction in to start being able to have smaller PRS for this topic.
[2022-09-20T17:54:03.664Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-09-20T17:55:50.005Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yes I agree I agree with you 100% and had actually meant to respond to that comment earlier but some of my current tests have substituted that with did key because that I actually fails because verification method controller doesn't match issuer.
[2022-09-20T17:56:02.653Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: Okay and then these tests are targeted right so like it should be it's one failure for testing the test failure is very specific to the cost.
[2022-09-20T17:56:10.542Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: I know at some point our issuer cannot be resolved.
[2022-09-20T17:56:18.690Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It currently is expecting a 400 response I would like to open a new PR to differentiate between 404 bad skin format and 404 bad signature.
[2022-09-20T17:56:30.906Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: Okay so we would have bad schema wrong or altered turn and then wrong issuer and if we were does not match proof.
[2022-09-20T17:56:31.863Z]	<Mahmoud>	...: so we would like this test to error out ONLY for bad schema rather than because the issuer is wrong
[2022-09-20T17:56:35.896Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: Set a request like that.
[2022-09-20T17:56:37.116Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Something like that something like that yeah.
[2022-09-20T17:56:46.359Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Laptop here excuse me that issue does not exist yet but it's on my list of things to do.
[2022-09-20T17:57:17.166Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: No no I'm saying we definitely ought to use it you're 100% correct but in addition to your reasoning that it won't resolve it also needs we also need to make sure that the controller on the proof matches the issue.
[2022-09-20T17:57:23.447Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And then using to key cells both of those issues.
[2022-09-20T17:57:23.639Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy:  so I.
[2022-09-20T17:57:36.996Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: He proposed that we merge this create a new issue to ensure that did key is used and let that be a separate PR.
[2022-09-20T17:57:55.928Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Let us merge this.
[2022-09-20T17:58:02.222Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: Wait in terms of process can we create the issue link the issue and then merge it.
[2022-09-20T17:58:07.960Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Absolutely I'll go ahead and create that now.
[2022-09-20T17:59:04.375Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Can I comment has been added.
[2022-09-20T17:59:14.384Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Cuz I look at you Benjamin.
[2022-09-20T17:59:27.233Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: To do edit the end.
[2022-09-20T17:59:33.567Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I added two during the conversation regarding the use of did key from our Hood.
[2022-09-20T17:59:52.974Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: Thing to see this issue was referenced 0 for 4 let's check the change okay you did it in the in the red rather than on the end okay found it sounds good.
[2022-09-20T18:00:07.673Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: There are no further objections or discussion topics I will go ahead and merge PR 400 emerging now.
[2022-09-20T18:00:19.465Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And the final one is the last of the also known as tickets this is number 403.
[2022-09-20T18:00:21.375Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pull/403
[2022-09-20T18:00:39.624Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And this is for updating the respect doc to remove one small reference to also known as that I believe is in one of the examples this was very recent and as such has no reviews except for this thank you.
[2022-09-20T18:00:59.164Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Given that this is a small removal I would like to merge this thank you I glued there no objections I'll go ahead and move merge 403.
[2022-09-20T18:01:04.952Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And that is merged.
[2022-09-20T18:01:14.052Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And that is it for PR's for Trace interop so let's go ahead and move to trace vocab.
[2022-09-20T18:01:24.503Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: There's three PR's here.
[2022-09-20T18:01:24.679Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+sort%3Acreated-asc
[2022-09-20T18:01:35.028Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/563
[2022-09-20T18:01:39.161Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It's basically a chat first PR is a draft I miss PR 56 34 this do you want to comment on this one or if it's still too new.
[2022-09-20T18:03:57.128Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I miss I am concerned about the change to package lock was that intentional.
[2022-09-20T18:04:16.218Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I mean we certainly certainly should commit it when it changes but it changed to the ml file should not have updated package lock.
[2022-09-20T18:04:51.303Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: I could be out of sync or nests if you ran something else in the file I I try to be paranoid when I update package luck they'll like I do a read clone from me and I hit em PMI and if anything changes that I that I push package that lock otherwise I generally avoid doing it so in this case I would yeah again for this I would just I'm just echoing Chris was concerned I would not expect package that lots of change unless.
[2022-09-20T18:04:54.453Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: It's about a thing.
[2022-09-20T18:05:36.920Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Oh well because package lock actually records specific installed versions all the packages so you know if you install a package and in the package Json you say I want you know version 3.0 Point O with a little carrot in front you know there are a range of options for satisfying that request and the package lock records which one was used so that.
[2022-09-20T18:05:53.459Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This will get the exact same package even though December string could possibly resolve to several different versions so it's a mechanism for making sure that multiple developers on different machines all have the exact same thing installed.
[2022-09-20T18:06:46.715Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: Call me there's there's only one commit for how long I guess undo that one commit and then.
[2022-09-20T18:06:49.048Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: And just the metal part.
[2022-09-20T18:08:42.301Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2022-09-20T18:09:11.002Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay then I suggest we.
[2022-09-20T18:09:21.155Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: On and I are we agreeing that this should be merged once those issues are addressed or would we like to hold off until next week.
[2022-09-20T18:09:36.189Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: I think people  using this vocab will be confused if there are two different property names that mean the same thing (even if its  a small mismatch)
[2022-09-20T18:09:40.316Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay the next issue is p oxygen is 56.
[2022-09-20T18:09:40.890Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/566
[2022-09-20T18:09:43.722Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And this one.
[2022-09-20T18:09:44.229Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: I don't agree, but happy to make the change
[2022-09-20T18:09:48.088Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: It's like where do you want to take us away.
[2022-09-20T18:10:47.552Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Is it also possible to modify the local sweet to be at the same path.
[2022-09-20T18:10:55.870Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	s/sweet/suite/
[2022-09-20T18:11:10.741Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay or you have the floor.
[2022-09-20T18:11:22.743Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: You can just make the path absolute to what it will be when it's hosted eventually if you like and then you know when you're testing it locally you're not going to.
[2022-09-20T18:11:39.751Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	ack
[2022-09-20T18:11:43.264Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Work to the newest changes but when it deploys it'll work well I've struggled with relative paths in Respec that's built dynamically in the local versus deployed environment and I tend to prefer absolute URLs just to avoid the issues but what you have may work I don't know.
[2022-09-20T18:11:53.498Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	q?
[2022-09-20T18:11:58.997Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Yep make sense.
[2022-09-20T18:12:08.882Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	q- Mahmoud
[2022-09-20T18:12:08.987Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: What i have should work, but can't test till we deploy.
[2022-09-20T18:12:13.279Z]	<Mahmoud>	q-
[2022-09-20T18:12:16.105Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay in light of that I mean it seems like we should merge this once we have no official approvals or you want to take that box.
[2022-09-20T18:12:22.099Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	q- Mahmoud
[2022-09-20T18:12:22.382Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Yes this is on five six six.
[2022-09-20T18:12:33.156Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Next song I will go ahead and merge PR 6:30.
[2022-09-20T18:12:38.782Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And that is merged.
[2022-09-20T18:12:44.904Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: The final PR is PR 579 from this.
[2022-09-20T18:12:46.344Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/579
[2022-09-20T18:13:31.071Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: Hopefully last of this class of bugs, probably not though. 
Some are copy-paste bugs, should be uncontroversial changes.
[2022-09-20T18:13:35.426Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay we have a number of approvals unless there are any objections I in a favor of merging this pull request.
[2022-09-20T18:13:39.866Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And merging now.
[2022-09-20T18:13:55.475Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And that is merged and that is it for pull requests on Facebook app so let us return to trace interop and review issues.
[2022-09-20T18:14:06.354Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay issues in least recently updated.
[2022-09-20T18:14:06.419Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2022-09-20T18:14:11.363Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: What are is posted into the chat.
[2022-09-20T18:14:20.384Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And the first issue is 359 this one is mine.
[2022-09-20T18:14:30.907Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Bear with me a moment while I review why I put a Blocker on this.
[2022-09-20T18:14:53.027Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So this issue itself is simply to track the conformance testing from for the credential status and point and it looks like this should no longer be blocked because the blocker is closed.
[2022-09-20T18:14:57.383Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So I'll remove the block label from this.
[2022-09-20T18:15:12.792Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And I believe this can be ready for PR and I will assign myself today and working on this stuff at the moment.
[2022-09-20T18:15:34.585Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/307
[2022-09-20T18:15:34.962Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay the next issue is issue 307 engineering this was opened by you.
[2022-09-20T18:16:03.832Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This is assigned to me regarding adding our tutorial style documentation to the oauth version of the presentation exchange I have still not had a chance to work on this this to be honest has been taking a backseat to writing conformance tests if we feel like this should have a higher priority then I'll need to bow out and someone else wanted to take this one on.
[2022-09-20T18:16:07.682Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: And I'm okay with this having less priorities on the conformist.
[2022-09-20T18:16:14.274Z]	<Transcriber>	Benjamin_Collins: This is more an oscillation than anything.
[2022-09-20T18:16:26.161Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Excellent next issue is 325.
[2022-09-20T18:16:28.530Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/325
[2022-09-20T18:17:28.842Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: I think we should keep both, traceable and presentation?
[2022-09-20T18:17:31.763Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay to clarify is this a situation where we're going to have one off and have it be either traceable presentation or.
[2022-09-20T18:17:40.095Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Ah I see that that was confusing for me.
[2022-09-20T18:17:41.397Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2022-09-20T18:17:54.403Z]	<Mahmoud>	Mahmoud: I agree, my comment may have not been clear, I agree with that was just trying to outline the options
[2022-09-20T18:17:56.594Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Would anyone like to take this one on.
[2022-09-20T18:18:08.563Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This will assign you.
[2022-09-20T18:18:21.821Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay the next one is one that's been around awhile this is number 39.
[2022-09-20T18:18:23.599Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/39
[2022-09-20T18:18:31.790Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And it is in relation to selective disclosure credentials currently blocked.
[2022-09-20T18:18:45.318Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: The last substantive comment was from Brian or whatever regarding perhaps getting more information after the ietf conference which was some time ago.
[2022-09-20T18:18:53.331Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Does not appear that anything has been added because anyone have any more information to add to this or.
[2022-09-20T18:18:59.255Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Or story suggest we close.
[2022-09-20T18:19:07.343Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I suggest we had pending close and if it's still in the state next week then we go ahead and close it.
[2022-09-20T18:19:14.331Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: So painting clothes label has been added.
[2022-09-20T18:19:19.730Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: And we can move on.
[2022-09-20T18:19:27.156Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Close it one way or another all right the next issue.
[2022-09-20T18:19:41.430Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Just follow our sorry while we're on the subject of this AT&T pack on there was a lot of excitement about SD J WT is anybody on the call interested in selective disclosure with sdj to be teeth.
[2022-09-20T18:19:54.877Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Because it may be we would we would close this BBS plus one and open SD J T2 T1 if someone was really excited about that.
[2022-09-20T18:19:56.564Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	s/sdj to be teeth/SD-JWT/
[2022-09-20T18:20:21.179Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	s/AT&T pack/at TPAC/
[2022-09-20T18:20:46.186Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: No it's not but neither is the BBS Plus work that's going through C FRG right now so it's in the same kind of boat if we want to have a discussion about it I can open an issue to track.
[2022-09-20T18:20:49.758Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Okay I'll do it.
[2022-09-20T18:20:57.459Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/363
[2022-09-20T18:20:59.116Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Thank you Ari next issue is from mood this is number 363.
[2022-09-20T18:21:23.717Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Agreed yeah this.
[2022-09-20T18:21:44.595Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I believe we added this as a placeholder after the fix to link to postman sweets in the individual tutorial documentation was completed because we thought it best as he said to have a central Link in the main readme and that that has not been done yet.
[2022-09-20T18:21:53.619Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I will go ahead and assign myself this should be fairly quick and easy.
[2022-09-20T18:22:11.680Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This was a initially created specifically for the read me but I do not disagree with you.
[2022-09-20T18:22:21.589Z]	<Mahmoud>	Nis: This should be in respec asswel
[2022-09-20T18:22:30.329Z]	<Mahmoud>	s/asswel/as well/
[2022-09-20T18:22:33.727Z]	<Chris_Abernethy>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/issues/330
[2022-09-20T18:22:39.427Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay next issue is 3:30 and this is one that I opened some time ago just want to get reacquainted with this.
[2022-09-20T18:23:08.501Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This was open because I saw some comments on another issue in the VC API repo suggesting that perhaps credential status would be removed from the set of options for the credential issue or endpoint.
[2022-09-20T18:23:12.653Z]	<Mahmoud>	q+
[2022-09-20T18:23:19.347Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: This I think our last conversation isn't we're going to wait and see what if you see a pi does.
[2022-09-20T18:23:32.007Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Helps not remove it it seems like this may have some use as one of the options to send to the issuer and point when we're shooing credential.
[2022-09-20T18:24:14.403Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2022-09-20T18:24:52.387Z]	<Mahmoud>	q-
[2022-09-20T18:25:13.840Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Okay yeah this one is interesting because this specific ticket is only for credential status DOT type which must be a string and it must be revocation list 2020 status so there are other places where we have information you know about.
[2022-09-20T18:25:26.795Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Status that are not related necessarily like Benjamin better and pointed out that in the response from issuing a credential you'll get a status that.
[2022-09-20T18:25:37.683Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: With some other items so I don't know if that's really relevant to this I just wanted to point out that signature sweet wasn't wasn't in there.
[2022-09-20T18:26:02.197Z]	<Orie>	VCAPI is broken here imo
[2022-09-20T18:26:15.265Z]	<Mahmoud>	+1 on being broken
[2022-09-20T18:26:21.522Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Yeah I think VC API is totally broken with respect to revocation lists right now for two reasons the first is ambiguity around issuing a revocable credential there's a 
[2022-09-20T18:26:49.254Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Parallelism problem there because you're issuing credentials from a revocation list scheme has a block and you the server needs to maintain sort of critical access to that block so that you're consuming the indexes in that block in a safe way so if I send you a thousand Network requests and I asked for a revocable credentials.
[2022-09-20T18:26:50.119Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie:  that's going to consume.
[2022-09-20T18:27:21.355Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Indexes and they need to all be consumed kind of consistently and you don't want to credentials to accidently consume the same index and those kinds of issues so when you request for a credential to be issued you as a caller will not know what index you can ask for so it's totally broken to ask the caller to guess what index they will be consuming and instead what you really need is to be able to say in your.
[2022-09-20T18:27:22.122Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie:  options I want this.
[2022-09-20T18:27:54.158Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: And you issuer inject the right status and the right index block and and that that all needs to happen in order to have the issuance process work successfully and I believe that is all working with our API but not in the VC API today and then sub the other issue is that the revocation list needs to be hosted somewhere so you have to have an API that hosts a credential that is a revocation list in order for the revocation to work.
[2022-09-20T18:28:00.831Z]	<Mahmoud>	q+
[2022-09-20T18:28:28.200Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: in our API specification we do this and then finally update credential status needs to take the ID of the credential that is irrevocable as an argument and flip the bit and the again issuing software would be needing to make sure that that was handled to critically and again our implementation and API spec does handle those cases here and I'm not sure to what extent that is true of the VC API.
[2022-09-20T18:28:28.812Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie:  then finally.
[2022-09-20T18:28:54.642Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: This status list 2021 as opposed to revocation list 2020 and we we have not implemented support for status list 2021 because the context has not been frozen yet so those are all of the issues with revocation between VC API and the API that's defined under Trace in Toronto.
[2022-09-20T18:29:46.721Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Do you need the issuer ID is not required or is required.
[2022-09-20T18:29:52.814Z]	<Mahmoud>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/blob/main/components/IssueCredentialOptions.yml There have been a number of updates including fixing the issuer options object requiring an id.
[2022-09-20T18:30:37.031Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Okay that's good I'm not up to date with all of the changes that happen there but the caller can't know what their index will be in the list is the problem right exactly.
[2022-09-20T18:31:09.642Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: I think so I've been in this correct me if I'm wrong but I think we cover these in interop but tests that run daily is that correct indexes increment properly this revocation list status 2020 is is used daily.
[2022-09-20T18:31:19.528Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Cuz I apologize for jumping into the mid conversation but we are at time at this point.
[2022-09-20T18:31:22.582Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: We should end.
[2022-09-20T18:31:30.078Z]	<Transcriber>	Orie: Climb that's this is this has been super good good job.
[2022-09-20T18:31:36.497Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/tree/main/docs/tutorials/credentials-revocation
[2022-09-20T18:31:37.198Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: Yeah do we have a volunteer to post the minutes this week.
[2022-09-20T18:31:41.797Z]	<nis>	We do test revocation
[2022-09-20T18:31:50.087Z]	<Transcriber>	Chris_Abernethy: I must thank you very much and I'll see everyone next week for Trace Vocab.
