Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-02-13/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2024-02-13/audio.ogg

A video recording is also available at:

https://meet.w3c-ccg.org/archives/w3c-ccg-weekly-2024-02-13.mp4

----------------------------------------------------------------
W3C CCG Weekly Teleconference Transcript for 2024-02-13

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Feb&period_year=2024&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Mike Prorock, Kimberly Linson, Harrison Tang
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Steve Bate, Harrison Tang, Bob Wyman, Laurin (he/him, 
  ActivityPods), perillamint, Dmitri Zagidulin, Kerri Lemoie, 
  Kimberly Linson, Susan Stroud, Brent Shambaugh, Rashmi Siravara, 
  Erica Connell, Evan Prodromou, Will, Peter Z, Matthias Pfefferle, 
  David Mason, Jennie, Kaliya Young, Nis Jespersen , James 
  Chartrand, Vanessa, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) 
  (OpenLinkSw.com), Stuart Freeman, David I. Lehn, David Chadwick, 
  Tim Bloomfield, Juan Caballero, Emelia S., Sharon Leu, pauld gs1, 
  Phil (T3), Adrian Gropper, Wendy Seltzer, Alex H, Leo, Jeff O / 
  HumanOS, Nikos Fotiou, Dmitri Z. (pres.), Tantek Ã‡elik, Johannes 
  Ernst

<kerri_lemoie> Hey all
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Harrison if you're speaking we can't hear you 
  unless that's just me.
<bumblefudge> i also no hear
Kimberly Linson:  Now it's me too I just texted him to see if he.
Kimberly Linson:  If he wanted me to get started so I I will do 
  that um so that we leave lots of time for you Demetri and I think 
  what will be a very good discussion um.
Kimberly Linson:  Hi everyone uh welcome to this week's uh 
  credentials community group meeting uh let me pull up my little.
<harrison_tang> that's weird
Kimberly Linson:  Agenda cheat sheet um but I know that the very 
  first thing on our agenda is to uh talk about professional 
  conduct and just make that reminder that we are all uh striving 
  towards the same goals um to make this technology accessible and 
  usable.
Kimberly Linson:  And uh if you are interested in reviewing that 
  uh policy in more detail it is uh Linked In the agenda.
Kimberly Linson:  If uh we definitely are glad you're here I see 
  lots of folks on the call today um so if you are new to this 
  group um we are very very happy that you're here and uh you are 
  welcome to attend these meetings um and not be a member of the 
  ccg but just uh come and join if you are interested though in um 
  contributing to the work becoming a more active participant then 
  we would ask that you go ahead and uh join.
Kimberly Linson:  The W individuals you can so you can check that 
  out the links to that are also in the uh agenda.
Kimberly Linson:   We uh.
Kimberly Linson:  We keep minutes uh and recording of this of 
  this meeting for uh future future interests and to keep an 
  archive of what we've what we've been talking about um and we 
  managed it uh via we manage the queue and the participation of um 
  of.
Kimberly Linson:  Contributions using a queue system so if you're 
  interested in have a question or have a comment on something that 
  someone is saying then I would invite you to put Q Plus uh in the 
  chat field and that will.
Kimberly Linson:  Um allow you 1 of the things that Harrison and 
  I will be doing in well if he's on here too um we'll be 
  monitoring that queue and making sure that everyone has the 
  opportunity to contribute.
Kimberly Linson:  Let's see if you're done speaking and you don't 
  want to uh you want to take yourself off the queue you can use Q 
  minus.
Kimberly Linson:  And uh that brings us I believe to um.
Kimberly Linson:  Introductions and reintroductions so if you are 
  new to this community or you haven't been here for a while and 
  you'd like to uh.
Kimberly Linson:  Introduce yourself or say hello to the group um 
  go ahead and put yourself on the Queue and I will.
Kimberly Linson:  Okay thank you um well no 1 No 1 uh wants to to 
  introduce or reintroduce themselves but I'm hoping that someone 
  uh might have uh an update or uh a community sort of notification 
  that they want to share with us uh so that is our next section.
Kimberly Linson:  Updates and reminders.
<dmitri_zagidulin> sign up for the April IIW! :)
Kimberly Linson:  Demetri everyone is very excited for you to to 
  have plenty of time.
Kimberly Linson:  And yes sign up for the April iiw if you 
  haven't already.
Kimberly Linson:  All right any questions or comments about work 
  items.
Kimberly Linson:  All right well that brings us to the end of our 
  housekeeping notes and so I will go ahead and turn it over to 
  Dmitri.
Dmitri Zagidulin: Slides: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PeobsC6TQC8ahaunNfD6hgtK_V51dHDQuUHcEDqIREA
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Thank you so much uh really excited to be here 
  uh okay so uh.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Oh let me just share my screen as well.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh so some welcome everyone uh.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  We figured that the Social Web community group 
  another 1 of uh w3c CGS uh has a lot of overlap with uh what 
  we're doing here the ccg so we wanted to come visit.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Uh tell tell everybody a little bit about what 
  we're doing in Social Web CG and invite you to join the 
  conversation uh.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So hold on 1 second let's join.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Or rather let's share screen is it sharing it 
  is not sharing.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Ah 1 second let me reconnect.
Kimberly Linson:  Demetri we see your slides but we are not 
  hearing you if you're speaking.
Kimberly Linson:  Still nothing I wonder if you want to try going 
  out and coming back in again.
Harrison_Tang: It might be the microphone setting.
Kimberly Linson:  And there you are.
Juan Caballero:  Should I should I do my best to meet you 
  impersonation.
Juan Caballero:   I was.
Juan Caballero:  Helping him with.
Juan Caballero:  For the meeting.
Juan Caballero:  Because I just like.
Juan Caballero:  Uh there um and I think maybe she doesn't hear 
  us telling of his uh.
Kimberly Linson:  That that we can't are you able to like text 
  him or something and tell him okay.
Juan Caballero:  Yeah yeah that's a I'll text them uh you.
Bob Wyman:  You might suggest that it try if you can't get the 
  computer working try to come in on the phone for the for the 
  audio.
<harrison_tang> @Dmitri It might be your microphone setting in 
  Jitsi.  I had an issue with it earlier.
Juan Caballero:  Yeah uh so um the the Social Web working group 
  uh at w3c has a long complicated history and it gets a little um.
Juan Caballero:  Uh it requires a bit of familiarity with the w3c 
  nomenclature so it was a working group which you know would be 
  the equivalent of like VC working group or dead working group uh 
  for 4 years and the the sort of scope and intention of that 
  working group was to um aligned or unify a really splintered 
  landscape there were a lot of different communities and things 
  working out there.
Juan Caballero:  Um in the wild that wanted to have a more you 
  know the the the wanted to have a shared and open platform across 
  them um uh may maybe Evan would like to speak to this I wasn't 
  there.
Juan Caballero:  And and uh the the um sorry I'll try to share 
  the slides or something I don't know what I don't know what 
  Dmitri is doing over there um.
Juan Caballero:  The um working group sort of uh shipped the the 
  um.
Juan Caballero:  Trcr everyone it's called Uh and went into 
  hibernation I guess it it was the working group was spun down and 
  the CG was spun up and sort of like governance transferred I 
  don't know the exact mechanism or terminology for it but uh the 
  community group became the steward of those CRS uh and.
Juan Caballero:   For a few.
Juan Caballero:  Mailing list was turned off there was there was 
  sort of like very little activity at w3c and and most of the 
  developer Community was working in like independent channels like 
  Social Hub and codeberg.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Quick sound check.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Oh yes thank you deep apologies for that no 
  idea why some cut off I just switched to different computer uh 
  thank you so much Juan uh and and Evan for uh for speaking.
Juan Caballero:  But you heard all of what we were saying so you 
  know where where we are and how much we covered.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh I think so remind me so where where did you 
  get to.
Juan Caballero:  So so uh yeah the the CG has now become more 
  active again in the last 2 years mainly let's turn back on uh 
  meetings TPAC um and that was the slide we were trying to 
  impersonate you on.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): I'm deeply appreciate that and I probably did 
  a better job anyways right so yeah so this this call is uh about 
  us wanting to share uh a little bit about what we're working on.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Because as uh as we're going to get into the 
  it's now becoming more important than ever.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh what else um Evan Juan uh what did I miss 
  from the the history and the context.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Okay fantastic yeah.
Juan Caballero:  Uh I think I think the I think the slide is good 
  to just read you could just leave it up for a second and you 
  would uh anyone who missed a section while we were babbling might 
  catch up um yeah I think it's I don't think you need to run 
  through the Bullet by Bullet um.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): So let's get it.
Juan Caballero:  That accurate factual background okay go ahead.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Excellent excellent yeah let's get into the 
  juicy stuff uh specifically so what's the Social Web up to right 
  now what are the challenges right what's hard.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): And how does this intersect with the 
  credentials community group with all of you here uh because we 
  want you to come join the conversation uh we need as many eyes 
  and and developers and users on this as as we could possibly get.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): All right so.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Let's talk about what's hard and both 
  challenges and opportunities really.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): So due to various scandals like Cambridge 
  analytica like the Twitter acquisition the renaming to acts uh 
  various scandals with Reddit.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Existing social media there is.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): A rising wider awareness of Need for 
  Alternatives or at least for better interoperability for better 
  oversight better motivation in some cases.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh to to put it put it another way.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.):  we got some.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh you know New York Times and Wall Street 
  Journal and wired and whatever else uh.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): You might be reading so that's good that's 
  good we have more more people sort of aware that hey not not 
  everything is well.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.):  as well as.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Media land and that possibly there are these 
  Alternatives coming up that people are working on possible 
  solutions.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Of course as always uh if you're interested in 
  this and you start diving into the work as always and this should 
  be familiar to us in the ccg from dids and verifiable credentials 
  our documentation and onboarding could be better.
<bumblefudge> lol
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): What if you if you're interested in this you 
  dive in you don't know where to get started please reach out to 
  us uh reach out to me reach out to Evan to Juan to the other 
  co-chairs we will be happy to guide you through.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Either as a as a user as a uh journalist or 
  commentator as a developer and so on.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): So since the technical recommendations were 
  published in 2018.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Millions of users there's been uh dozens and 
  dozens of different implementations.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): In in multiple languages we've gotten a lot of 
  feedback from users and Developers.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): We have a lot more experience.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): And so just like with the credentials working 
  group The credential working group 1.0 finished up.
<bumblefudge> And also reach out to Bob W and Emelia and Laurens 
  and Matthias and Peter Z who are here!
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): It was already time to uh to start up granches 
  group 2.0 and so on so we're in a in a similar sort of space uh 
  we're currently.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): In the process of.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Ing curating uh updating the very 
  specifications uh that are needed to write social software uh in 
  this in the Social Web CG.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): What else has happened well there's.
<bumblefudge> the CG is very horizontal, you don't need to talk 
  to the chairs and editors
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): There were some well publicized launches.
<emelia_s.> Thanks @bumblefudge
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Since then a relatively smaller 1 from Blue 
  Sky uh partly funded by uh Jack Dorsey of Twitter as sort of like 
  a.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): As as a aspiring Twitter killer if you will 
  although lots of people in the Federation activity Pub Community 
  would definitely argue with that and and point out that hey we we 
  were there before.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): We had millions of users before Blue Sky came 
  along but it doesn't matter everybody's working towards the same 
  general goal which is we want Alternatives we want things to be 
  open and standardized we want things to be portable.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Facebook or or rather the parent company meta.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Announced that it's long it's launching its 
  own.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Sort of Facebook alternative threads.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Or Facebook style Twitter alternative if you 
  will.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): But most importantly.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): 1 of the.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): 1 of the open specifications the the technical 
  report that came out of the Social Web working group and is now 
  being stewarded by the community group so as you can imagine 
  there were a lot of discussions both in the existing fediverse 
  community in uh wider developer community in general so things 
  are getting serious.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): As you very well know in the ccg.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Authentication identity authorization still 
  very difficult.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh and although.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): We've got some more Tech to experiment with to 
  try and integrate to see if we can if it can help our efforts in 
  the Social Web space.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): And aside from uh.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Basically stuff you can sign.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): We have very real and pressing uh challenges 
  with with moderation and portability uh challenges that the 
  community and and the community group are working on actively uh 
  that we hope for your help in.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): What's hard why isn't everyone using the 
  fediverse well in the relative scheme of things.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): So pretty new.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh just a lot of people just haven't heard of 
  the fediverse a lot of people don't know the name uh Mastadon or 
  activity Pub or fed averse or anything like that right so we have 
  a lot to go uh we have far to go uh publicity wise.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.):  but also.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Work to do.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Development and standards side.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): For those very motivated to switch from 
  traditional social media.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Decentralized social media.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh they they do run into their real problems 
  of hey traditional social media.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Builds a moat around.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): The followers graph.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Have a list of followers or friends on 1 
  platform and I want to migrate to another.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): There's no way uh traditional companies are 
  like oh sure yeah let us let us helpfully map your uh your 
  followers from from 1 platform to another so that when you 
  migrate you don't have an empty list right let let us ease the 
  transition that is the exact opposite of uh the the current 
  business model and so that presents presents an interesting 
  challenge during waves of migration away from Twitter we saw some 
  really ingenious solutions to this where people put in their 
  profile description hey uh I'm off of Twitter but I'm over here 
  on the fediverse and then people build uh scrapers and tools 
  that.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Index people's profiles and and you could put 
  in your.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Your old username.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.):  and it.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Would say okay.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Of your friends be these are the ones that 
  migrated here's where you should sign up with them right so so 
  some very Creative Solutions.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): That kind of had to hack around this lack of 
  uh portable social graph and that that is 1 of the things that 
  we're trying to.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Um to to solve here.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh in a CG.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh the next major problem is that okay so say 
  as a user you've heard about this decentralized Social Web you're 
  like okay I want to try it out.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.):  you go to some.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): You run into the various usability challenges 
  in the decentralized world such as.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.):  you're not.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Case with the choice of okay uh which which 
  server.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Which uh community of users do you want to 
  join now the whole thing interferes.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): I from 1 server can follow everybody else on 
  other domains other servers that's not the problem.
Juan Caballero: https://fediverse.party if people want to see the 
  "daunting first step" for themselves :D
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): But they but I still have to pick 1 I I still 
  have to create an account somewhere before joining uh and and 
  that the the choosing of the server has traditionally been a 
  fairly difficult problem um a friction barrier for users to 
  overcome although that's gotten better in recent years for 
  example um some of the flagship.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Implementations like Mastadon like Firefish 
  like um.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Have started recommending like.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Yes you should choose um you should choose a 
  domain you should choose an initial instance server.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): If you don't have strong opinions here's 1 you 
  might start with.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): So this is why for example a lot of people 
  following from I don't know New York Times article or a wired 
  article they hear about mastadon.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Based on has started.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Recommending or at least.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Educating people that okay if you don't know 
  what what else to join join Master on social.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Now this made onboarding easier but as you can 
  probably imagine the this also uh resulted in some grumbling of 
  okay but now.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): To vendor locking.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): It's still on.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): We can get.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Back to that.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): If people are.
<bumblefudge> a familiar problem to the wallet-chooser domain...
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): What else are we working on what what are the 
  problems are we trying to solve in the Social Web uh.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Area access control is still hard for for 
  various reasons right either encryption based access control or 
  traditional authorization policy Access Control such as what 
  solid or webdev or even Google Documents has.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh This Thread is only for my followers or my 
  friends or whatever the uh the terminology is at that particular 
  implementation.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Countries that we can.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Another thing that's on everybody's mind in 
  the decentralized social space is of course moderation.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Which is very painful and very relevant these 
  days uh because several countries like European Union the US 
  others have passed legislation uh trying to combat.
<bumblefudge> terrorism content as well
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Sexually explicit material material dealing 
  with minors uh oh all sorts of things that should be moderated.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): But by passing that legislation.
<bumblefudge> often more aggressively policed
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Large instances large service providers and 
  small ones uh equally but obviously they don't have equal uh 
  means and funds to deal with it so there's a lot of interesting 
  conversation there's a lot of friction there's a lot of.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Solutions being feverishly worked on in the 
  area of moderation uh because well it's it's a problem 
  everywhere.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): The traditional mainstream social.
<emelia_s.> For CSAM, IFTAS is currently working on a solution, 
  and I'm the tech lead for it.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Platforms just have entire Departments of 
  people moderating and of course burning out and and having 
  post-traumatic stress disorder and and so on and so forth so it's 
  a huge problem in Tech in general.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): It's definitely something that we have to deal 
  with in uh Social Web space.
Juan Caballero: https://about.iftas.org/
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Is surprisingly difficult or maybe not 
  surprisingly right well you've all you've all been in the area of 
  decentralized system you know that.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh in any decentralized system is hard let 
  alone 1.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): That has any sort of authorization or Access 
  Control.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): So that's that's an ongoing conversation and 
  and there's interesting Solutions there.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): And then of course.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Why do we get in this in the first place 
  because we want choices we want portability we want standards.
<bumblefudge> competing proposals/designs for hashtag-federation 
  and global search were the main topic at the 2019 activitypub 
  conference in prague that I attended...
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): And if I join 1 instance let's say it was the 
  first 1 that the commanded I followed some article.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): On social or.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Firefish social or something else.
<emelia_s.> There's not much I can disclose for now on IFTAS's 
  CSAM detection tooling, but we're working on it actively
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): But I'm like okay this is great but uh here my 
  friends started up.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Instance over here I want to join that.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): The promise of the fediverse is that I'm able 
  to do that I'm able to take my posts take my followers and 
  following lists uh take my sort of identity and profile and 
  settings and all that and and migrate to another.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Another server to another domain.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): And it is possible but as you can probably 
  imagine there's a lot of technical difficulties there's a lot of 
  edge cases there's a lot of stuff for us to work through uh which 
  is 1 of the reasons that um.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.):  Social Web.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Group have start.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): So why why were we especially excited to uh 
  talk to this community here uh to the ccg.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Identity and authentication is difficult and a 
  part of the Social Web Community is looking at DS.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh incubated by by this uh very ccg.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): To see if that can help with some of the 
  challenges there.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh the other direction that that's currently 
  being worked on is an older uh protocol called webfinger uh that 
  where usernames look like emails essentially uh and are used to 
  discover the initial profile which contains keys and service 
  endpoints should be familiar.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Some interest towards deads.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Due to the portability and migration problem 
  in addition to access control in addition to moderation uh 
  there's a lot of incentive to be able to sign everything to to 
  use digital signatures data Integrity style to.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Signpost for again.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): For audit logs for authorship for portability 
  for lots of different reasons so we have a couple of in progress 
  specifications the fap 390 and the ADB 32.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): That are using some of the tech incubated in 
  the ccg to apply it to the Social Web.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Another conversation that's just really 
  starting up just just starting to get going is this notion of 
  okay so if we can do did for Athenian Identity or something did 
  like using um webfinger and these these actor profiles what about 
  access control.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Wouldn't it be great if we had some sort of uh 
  Access Control policy language or.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.):  you know.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh authorization capabilities such as zap LD 
  in in this group you can uh which is another uh basically 
  equivalent to to zaps uh that's that's currently being done 
  outside of w3c or maybe a uh synthesis of the 2 uh a best of all 
  worlds.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): And of course.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): 1 of the challenges of.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Migrating content so I make a couple posts on 
  1 dumaine and I want to bring it to another what happens to.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): To the links to the previous domain.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): How rights also the links will have to be 
  moved.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Be great if in addition to the classic domain 
  based urls.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): The posts that I make the comments that people 
  leave on those posts the likes that people send had portable 
  identifiers.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uuids or better yet content addressed 
  identifiers just a bit more in the purview of the ccg and so on 
  so lots of tech need needs figuring out uh in that area as well.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Yeah so I want to leave lots of time for um 
  other colleagues from uh the Social Web working group to to to 
  weigh in on what they see is the.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Are the primary challenges the stuff that 
  we're working on things that we need help with uh but I want to 
  make sure to give the call to action uh if you find this stuff 
  interesting.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.):  come join.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): During the social.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Community group during the mailing list I've 
  got a user-friendly Forum uh if you're.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Then uh join the fep repo where some of these 
  specs are being worked on as well.
<bumblefudge> ...contribute to a FOSS implementation!
<bumblefudge> hehe
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): And if you haven't tried it out uh dip your 
  toe in the whole Fetter verse uh.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Space get a f account uh try it out yes you'll 
  you'll encounter some of the challenges uh that we mentioned but.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): It's also really really fun and and uh there's 
  a lot of momentum in behind all of this.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): So yeah so I'll pause here on this.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh on on the slide here and uh invite.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Um aan um Juan anybody else to to hop on the 
  queue.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): What else did I miss.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Bob please go ahead.
Bob Wyman:  Yeah uh you kind of touched on it a number of times 
  but a very specific thing okay that's relevant to the credentials 
  um working group is is the fact that we need credentials um.
<bumblefudge> yeah
Bob Wyman:  In profiles right now or in essentially it's a social 
  system but there's no way within that social system of being able 
  to find out who the heck anybody is um or or what their 
  attributes are for instance if somebody is like flaming on about.
<tantek_Ã§elik_(he/him,_mozilla)> lol what was that laughter?!?
<bumblefudge> me!
Bob Wyman:  I don't know climate science I'd like to know that 
  they're a professor at a university or they have a degree in the 
  subject or they have some kind of qualification at the moment I I 
  have no mechanism in the in the social network of of discovering 
  that.
<bumblefudge> jitsi is wierd, man
<bumblefudge> it laughs when you click the laughing emoji-react
Bob Wyman:  And uh so a lot of the a lot of the stuff that the 
  credentials Works uh group works on I think we we need uh in in 
  the Social Web not for commercial purposes but just so we know 
  who the heck we're speaking to um.
Bob Wyman:  Anyway I think uh the other thing if I could mention 
  to sort of to add on you spoke about the issue with search you 
  know people wanting to it's not a technological problem there to 
  a great extent it's more a question of what what people want so 
  it's a question of.
<bumblefudge> huge +1 to the "green checkmark" idea -- linkedin 
  uses VCs to display who has a signature from an employer, 
  fediverse could do the same
Bob Wyman:  Of of Rights um 1 of the issues that I think needs to 
  be dealt with is the question of of text and data mining.
<tantek_Ã§elik_(he/him,_mozilla)> is there a link to notes or the 
  slide deck?
Bob Wyman:  Now for instance we have European a lot of the users 
  of the social system do not want their content to be text or data 
  mind um but we now have things like European laws that say that 
  unless you explicitly state in your data uh some provide some 
  sort of signal that uh that you're having text and data mining 
  that uh a large number of people have an assumed right to do that 
  uh irrespective of copyright law that's that's European law um so 
  1 of the things that we don't have is a way of making.
Bob Wyman:   A statement.
<dmitri_z._(pres.)> @Tantek - slide deck: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PeobsC6TQC8ahaunNfD6hgtK_V51dHDQuUHcEDqIREA/edit
Bob Wyman:  About rights um particularly the the right to uh uh 
  control text and data mining.
<dmitri_z._(pres.)> notes are auto-transcribed here in jitsi chat
<dmitri_z._(pres.)> and that gets published afterward
Bob Wyman:  And that's that maybe isn't that relevant to this 
  group although you know it would be good to have it as a as a 
  credential uh the TDM rep or the Texan data mining 
  representation.
Bob Wyman:  I think it's representation uh working group with the 
  w3c is is is probably a better context for that but it does 
  relate.
Juan Caballero: 
  https://www.aisnakeoil.com/p/artists-can-now-opt-out-of-generative
Bob Wyman:  The z cap and some other kind of similar issues and 
  odl and that sort of thing anyway so but the the the important 
  thing I want to state was in the social system in the Social Web 
  we need credentials we don't have any credentials now we really 
  need credentials.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Thank you so much Bob uh really great Point uh 
  let's see who's up next Evan.
<bumblefudge> C2PA and content credentials have been mentioned, 
  but I think it's early for standardizing
<kaliya_identity_woman> come to the FediForum! 
  https://fediforum.org/
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Thank you so much yeah join join the task 
  force is uh definitely need help there uh Amelia go ahead.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Oh oh sorry sorry.
Emelia_S.: Is at the moment.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): I I just just saw kalia's uh point that uh 
  feder form clear hop on the Queue and tell us about 34 I'm sorry 
  go ahead go ahead Emilia.
<bumblefudge> when is the next fediforum? format is familiar to 
  those that remember the online IIWs :D
Emelia_S.: Yeah uh so 1 Thing worth mentioning is that uh at the 
  moment in order to participate in the fatty verse you do have a 
  public private key pair.
Emelia_S.: Uh which is used for HTTP HTTP signatures there's also 
  the identity through web finger and things like that.
Emelia_S.: So perhaps did or some other.
Emelia_S.: Related credentials specification might help with 
  regards to that IE owning your credentials rather than uh.
Emelia_S.:  having this.
Emelia_S.: Of a managed them.
<bumblefudge> yup, custodial keys and webfinger DO present a 
  straightforward upgrade path/interop point for self-managed keys 
  and/or identifiers
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Thanks yeah that's a that's a really good 
  point that the feds already uses cryptography for authentication 
  and identity by just having a key pair so the part of the on-ramp 
  part of the migration uh sort of proposal is okay what if we can 
  translate those key pairs into DS and and go from there.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Let's see who's who's up next Ted go ahead.
<bumblefudge> no "breaking change" upgrade without an upgrade 
  path is realistic IMHO
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): So I'm 
  hearing competing interests.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): To put it 
  mildly.
<dmitri_z._(pres.)> competing interest? in social networking? :) 
  :)
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): This is all 
  very much Reinventing the old uh nntp or Net News protocols and 
  interactions and.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com):  which was.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Sort of a.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): And 
  infinitely replicate discussion threads across the internet uh.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Pipe for 
  that.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Is enormous I 
  don't think it is possible anymore to carry a full Newsfeed 
  because the bandwidth that you need is more than the internet 
  provides.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com):  setting 
  that.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): We have 
  wishes for searches and the reason we wish for search is because 
  we want to find discussions that are of Interest.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): But in order 
  to have a search that works we have to be able to quote unquote 
  data mine because that's the only way to build an index.
<evan_prodromou> It doesn't work like NNTP.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): The devil 
  would love to hate or hate to love because they have scraped so 
  much.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Data mined so 
  much data.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com):  from a.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Across the 
  web.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): So that we 
  can find information but we can't necessarily find the 
  information that we're interested in because people have learned 
  the tricks of keyword poisoning Pages such that things come up 
  when we don't want them to.
<tantek_Ã§elik_(he/him,_mozilla)> Dmitri can you share a link to 
  the slide deck?
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): And make it 
  harder to find the information that would do want to find.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Um the 
  Federated discussion thing.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Blue sky and 
  the others uh the the sort of parallel micro blogging.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It was semi 
  standardized a decade ago when Twitter was really hot uh and when 
  Twitter was killing all of its third-party client software.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Killing the 
  the API access so the third party software had no choice but to 
  die.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com):  uh and.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Their tools 
  less usable.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): The same 
  thing I hear is happening with what exists right now as far as 
  the quote unquote Fedders and blue sky and others.
<bumblefudge> @tantek 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PeobsC6TQC8ahaunNfD6hgtK_V51dHDQuUHcEDqIREA/edit
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): They're sort 
  of integrated but the presentations that they offer all differ.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Similar data 
  structures.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It is very 
  difficult to have a unified presentation the closest thing that 
  happened.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): In the last 
  20 years was the RSS and atom explosion.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Does have a 
  semi standard format of data.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com):  but the.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Is very very 
  different depending on which quote unquote client application you 
  use.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): And how 
  usable those applications are varies wildly there are open source 
  ones there are closed Source ones there are pay for it and not 
  pay for it or pay for it with cash and pay for it with ads.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): It's all a 
  jungle right now.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): And finding 
  ways to.
<dmitri_z._(pres.)> ActivityPub is /very/ similar to RSS and 
  Atom! Same sort of deal - standard data model, lots of different 
  clients can innovate in the UI
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Not to pave 
  that jungle but to tame it somewhat to make it easier to consume 
  to make it easier to travel.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): That's where 
  the game is right now and finding a way to make that pay.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): People who 
  are.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): That's the 
  people are devoted.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): The standards 
  we.
TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): All need 
  roofs and food.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Thank you so much Bob.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh clearly I think you're up next.
<tantek_Ã§elik_(he/him,_mozilla)> Dmitri Z., I'm sure you mean 
  ActivityStreams is similar to Atom, since it's an evolution 
  thereof
Kaliya Young:  Um sure I think Johannes joined the call um so 
  maybe he can also speak to it but the fetty Forum.
Kaliya Young:  Catalyzed by Johannes and I'm helping him with it 
  um using as Juan said the format that we use for virtual AWS 
  using open space technology.
Kaliya Young:  The community of folks working in all things fed 
  averse um connecting to each other Johannes do you want to.
Kaliya Young:  Share more about your inspiration and what you 
  hope can come out of it.
Kaliya Young:  If he's here.
Kaliya Young:  He told me he was here on the back Channel but 
  maybe he's not.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): No worries uh Johannes when when Dana joins us 
  can hop hop on the queue.
Kaliya Young:  Yeah but basically all things fed up for him and 
  we make the agenda the day of the event so everything's welcome.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Yeah so that's uh it's a great conference 
  great way to dive into uh Fiverr and the tech so so please join.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh let's see it's we've got Bob is that a is 
  that a repeat do you have another comment.
Bob Wyman:  Yeah I just wanted to clarify in response to what Ted 
  was saying there's no question that search is often useful 
  however in the social world it's it's something that large.
Bob Wyman:  Subset of the users.
Bob Wyman:  Um are actively in opposition to having their content 
  be subject to search and it's because and it's 1 of the reasons 
  they use.
Bob Wyman:  Activity part at the moment because it cannot be 
  searched it's been found by a number of shall we say minority 
  groups.
Bob Wyman:  Either racial or gender sexual whatever um that.
Bob Wyman:  If when search is available it becomes possible for 
  bullies and uh uh trollers to discover um or to impute the 
  Identity or the characteristics of individuals and then and then 
  abuse them um and.
Bob Wyman:  And for those groups they are very vocal about the 
  fact that they do not want.
Bob Wyman:  You know as Ted was saying search is generally useful 
  and it's provided a lot of benefit to us all it provides a lot of 
  benefit to those who are opposed to having their content be 
  searched as well in other kinds of content but we need to respect 
  um the fact that.
<dmitri_z._(pres.)> yeah, Search is hard on a /good/ day, let 
  alone when there's access control and privacy involved
<bumblefudge> it's worth mentioning that many core designers of 
  the protocol were explicitly informed by histories of online 
  abuse and optimized for coziness and safety which the commercial 
  social web was NOT providing at the time
Bob Wyman:  Uh 1 1 Wrights 1 has rights over what right and and 
  uh uh we need to find ways to uh provide search while respecting 
  uh the authors uh the right holders uh desire not to be searched 
  or or or data mind okay that's all.
<bumblefudge> i can't remember offhand if it was listed as a goal 
  in the use-cases docs, but it was there
<tantek_Ã§elik_(he/him,_mozilla)> Dmitri can you stop presenting 
  the slide so we can see the full grid of folks on the call?
<dmitri_z._(pres.)> of course
<tantek_Ã§elik_(he/him,_mozilla)> thank you!
Harrison_Tang: Yeah so I have 2 questions um the first 1 is uh 
  how do you actually do search without a centralized index so 
  that's a search related question the second 1 is about uh the 
  feed the news feed so uh I think most of the uh the biggest uh 
  draw to uh social networks is the most engaging part the features 
  the newsfeed or or maybe in Tik toks is the uh ever going uh 
  videos and for building an engaging Newsfeed you need the user 
  data right like essentially these algorithms basically uh do 
  supervised learnings toward uh engagements like clicks and Views 
  so how do you actually create a Federated uh news feed um how do 
  you actually even uh create a Federated uh data model for user 
  engagements just curious if anyone have thoughts on that.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh David go ahead you're up.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh cleia do you mind muting.
David Mason:  Can you hear me.
David Mason:  Oh wonderful hey everyone it's been a while so um 
  yeah so I actually um been researching um.
David Mason:  Set of Earth and activity Pub and activity streams 
  to hopefully make a recommendation for a project.
David Mason:  And uh I initially asked you know is there a doc a 
  document or something that would be this is how you would create 
  an application.
David Mason:  And it didn't really seem to exist and then I 
  started digging in and realizing that what there are is a lot of 
  um discussions around all the different directions that's going 
  in and all the problems and um.
David Mason:   You know.
David Mason:  I'd still like to.
David Mason:  Find a way.
David Mason:  Where I could today make you know legitimate uh uh 
  application in this realm or at least um something that would be 
  forward compatible uh but you know I've seen a lot of issues um 
  that really make me hesitant around um making any kind of 
  recommendation um other people have discussed different aspects 
  of this but I mean the privacy concerns um around you know pill 
  pillaging uh information I mean it's unsafe for some people today 
  and I think for everyone in the long run if anyone's you know 
  building these uh you know these models of people uh I think they 
  can still do it with uh uh thought of verse um you know there's 
  Bad actors uh you know including companies changing hands so good 
  1 day they're about the next there's box there's breaches 
  there's.
David Mason:   Laws that change.
<evan_prodromou> Not true
David Mason:  There's a servers that centralize a lot of 
  information I mean as far as I understand Mastadon um.
David Mason:  I I appreciate that probably some of my points are 
  not correct because it's quite tense but uh as far as I 
  understand um on Master on um.
David Mason:  Some of the like direct messages are not actually 
  private so somebody running uh a master on node can read other 
  people's uh what are some kind of times called private messages 
  um they can see who's subscribing to what um so um but at the 
  same time I think actually for a system that you know is existing 
  today uh it really should kind of be about the graph um and it 
  shouldn't you know trying to be returning to be uh 200 uh Twitter 
  it should expose as much of the information the valuable and 
  useful information uh of the graph that people are on uh to the 
  end user and uh to to applications and so on so it's a really 
  hard Balancing Act.
David Mason:   And I do.
David Mason:  Apologize for all the things.
David Mason:  It's very difficult to understand all this um uh 
  but that's basically what I've been thinking about uh when trying 
  to make a recommendation thank you.
Laurin_(he/him,_ActivityPods): To someone want to respond to 1 of 
  the open issues first maybe before I open a new 1.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): It's fine I think people are hopping on the 
  Queue to respond so go ahead.
Laurin_(he/him,_ActivityPods): All right um so I'm working on a 
  project called activity pop which is the activity pots sorry 
  which is a general purpose activity pop server that supports um.
Laurin_(he/him,_ActivityPods): Blood pods for your personal 
  account.
Laurin_(he/him,_ActivityPods): And right now I'm.
Juan Caballero: 
  https://github.com/assemblee-virtuelle/activitypods
<dmitri_z._(pres.)> yeyyy solid + activitypub!
Laurin_(he/him,_ActivityPods): We're starting to implement the 
  cap LD for um.
Laurin_(he/him,_ActivityPods): An authorization scheme to support 
  certain kinds of inbox actions for users for example.
<bobwyman> We need a Rights Expression Language that can express 
  grants of rights, and withholding of rights, for any object in 
  the SocialWeb. If you can sign something, you should also be able 
  to make a statement about the rights that you grant or withhold.
Laurin_(he/him,_ActivityPods): I assume an authorization 
  capabilities to someone to send me a specific kind of activity 
  like um and other except for following a person.
Laurin_(he/him,_ActivityPods): Um and I was wondering if anyone 
  else has been working on this um or has a billions on it and um.
<dmitri_z._(pres.)> @Laurin - I'm also VERY interested in 
  exploring capabilities (both for Solid and the Fediverse)
https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/capability-based-authority-zcaps-consent-in-fediverse-software-use-cases-and-experience-with-implementing/3856
Laurin_(he/him,_ActivityPods): I'm not very familiar with the 
  process standardizing this so for now it's process of um yeah 
  checking out how to go on about it and I created an issue on our 
  post on the social help Forum um I'll post in the link and I'm 
  happy for anyone to respond there.
<dmitri_z._(pres.)> also yeyy Spritely!
Juan Caballero: https://spritely.institute/
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): And I think you.
Emelia_S.: I'm pretty sure learning is implementing the paper 
  from sprightly if I'm not mistaken.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Evan I think you were also on the queue in 
  addition or what was that.
<bumblefudge> friend of the podcast/CG Christine Lemmer-Weber was 
  an editor of the AP spec and runs SPritely AFAIK
<emelia_s.> It's not private in the sense of end to end encrypted
<bumblefudge> there are more private-only implementations in 
  progress - bovine, for example
<david_mason> past legal issues, I think a bot one way or anohter 
  could access this information
<emelia_s.> i.e. server admins _can_ read your DMs, we just trust 
  them not to.
<tantek_Ã§elik_(he/him,_mozilla)> ^ this
Juan Caballero: https://codeberg.org/helge/bovine
<bumblefudge> yeah, David is right, privacy and its liabilities 
  are measured by results and fake accounts or malicious/sloppy 
  mods are important to factor in
<bumblefudge> it's a complicated topic!
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Thanks Evan uh I wanted to hop on the Queue to 
  talk about search but I do see we've got uh 5 now 4 minutes uh to 
  the top of the hour uh so uh I want to give uh Brent and uh Evan 
  more more time to speak uh yes search is hard come join the 
  conversation uh we can talk about Solutions.
Brent Shambaugh:  Yeah Demetri I I was actually interested in 
  search of how you can have people who don't want to be found and 
  maybe activity Club got in there and people that do want to be 
  found in the same space.
<emelia_s.> I have a small little thing on credentials
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Yeah it's a it's a really fascinating and 
  valuable and challenging um go ahead Amelia.
Emelia_S.: Uh so there was mentioned before of uh credentials in 
  in particular for verifying the identity of journalists and 
  things like that.
Emelia_S.: Um I am currently well I say currently it's probably 
  within this year hopefully uh working on uh identity verification 
  for the fediverse.
Emelia_S.: Um and I have a couple of ways started doing it that 
  integrate already with existing Fede versus software but 
  verifiable credentials for instance would be very beneficial 
  here.
Emelia_S.: It's just a fact that we don't currently have them 
  widely available on not strictly widely available to the General 
  Public.
<dmitri_z._(pres.)> @Emelia - I'd love to chat with you about 
  it!!
Emelia_S.: So 1 of the things that I have to look at there is 
  actually charging some small amount of money in order to verify 
  someone's identity through 1 of these third-party services that 
  do the AI ml.
<peter_z> Has anyone mentioned rel=me verification??
<bumblefudge> ^ not yet
<bobwyman> Let's not do something that isn't compatible with 
  Verifiable Crediential!!!!!
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Thank you uh Peter and Chad is asking is 
  anybody mentioned real me verification uh no we haven't yet 
  that's another uh really useful tool in our toolbox uh come over 
  to the group we'll tell you all about it.
Juan Caballero: https://microformats.org/wiki/rel-me
<emelia_s.> If you're interested about that, you can reach me at 
  emelia@unobvious.technology
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Uh yeah I think uh hand handing it back over 
  to uh to Harrison Bob go ahead.
Bob Wyman:   I was.
<tantek_Ã§elik_(he/him,_mozilla)> thanks bumblefudge
Bob Wyman:  But the thing.
Bob Wyman:  Needing to pay somebody um.
Bob Wyman:  I I I I think at the credentials were group will back 
  me up on this there are many ways to verifiable credentials 
  without having to pay anybody.
<kaliya_identity_woman> He was talking about traditional identity 
  proofing
Emelia_S.: Uh sir specifically here um the issue is that a lot of 
  the ways of getting a verified credential of some sort uh don't 
  exist globally so for instance you've got certain US states that 
  do Implement verifiable credentials.
Emelia_S.: They're not always easily accessible to the General 
  Public.
Bob Wyman:  Right right but that's a verifiable state credential.
<tantek_Ã§elik_(he/him,_mozilla)> OTOH buying a domain name is 
  available worldwide
Emelia_S.: There's also there's also then some requirements from 
  certain laws egh verification laws where you actually are 
  required to use government ID in a certain way.
Bob Wyman:  Right right we should.
<dmitri_z._(pres.)> slides link again: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PeobsC6TQC8ahaunNfD6hgtK_V51dHDQuUHcEDqIREA/edit#slide=id.g2b8c4d047ba_0_19
Emelia_S.: And it doesn't necessarily mesh with the stuff that 
  they're doing with verifiable credentials in driver's licenses or 
  things like that um so the current standard within that or 
  industry is actually to use uh services like jio um ID now Etc.
Emelia_S.: All of those.
<tantek_Ã§elik_(he/him,_mozilla)> Thank you Dmitri Z! Appreciated!
Bob Wyman:  Right we shouldn't go in the in great depth on this 
  the important point is that yes some verifiable credentials are 
  the require money or great amount of effort to get them but not 
  all do so we can still use verifiable credentials even if people 
  don't have the aren't using the kinds that you have to pay money 
  for.
Emelia_S.: Right so there are many ways that you can implement 
  this and uh.
Emelia_S.:  at the end of the.
Emelia_S.: It's easier to implement 1 credential solution first 
  and then add others.
Emelia_S.: Than uh trying to support all the many many many many 
  different versions of credential management out of the box 
  straight away.
<bumblefudge> anything first, open platform second?
Emelia_S.: That's my kind of product the answer.
Dmitri_Z._(pres.): Thank you everyone uh over to Harrison.
<bumblefudge> any port in a storm if the lawyers and regulators 
  are already knocking on the door!
Harrison_Tang: Well thank you Dimitri and thanks everyone uh so.
Harrison_Tang: I think these are great conversations and uh if 
  you have any questions or want to continue those conversations 
  please feel free to join the uh Social Web uh working group and 
  uh you know I think we probably should do another 1 of these 
  sessions I think we have so so many great discussion today well 
  another 1 of these sessions like in a few months so thanks a lot 
  uh this concludes this week's ccg meeting and thanks to Ministry 
  uh for the in the discussion.
<david_mason> thanks everyone!
<evan_prodromou> Thanks all!
<emelia_s.> @kaliya fyi, my pronouns are she/her
