Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-08-16-vcapi/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-08-16-vcapi/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC API Task Force Transcript for 2022-08-16

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Aug/0113.html
Topics:
  1. Relevant Community Updates
  2. Status of Exchange Discovery PR
  3. How are client features requested in VPR?
  4. Background on OIDC4VCI
  5. How VPR requests client features
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Manu Sporny, Dave Longley, Joe Andrieu, Mike Varley, David 
  Chadwick, Dmitri Zagidulin, Eric Schuh, Kerri Lemoie, TallTed // 
  Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), bengo

Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Manu Sporny:  Welcome everyone to the verifiable credentials API 
  work item called This is August 16th 2022 today on our agenda.
Manu Sporny:  Is a just a review introductions relevant Community 
  updates status of the exchange Discovery PR some like Varley 
  heads up that we're going to ask you to give us an update there.
Manu Sporny:  How our client features requested so a question 
  about intra and Inter protocol request for information this 
  interact thing in the back and forth associated with it a 
  discussion around terminology so renaming the app terminology to 
  maybe coordinator it looks like there's there's a slight lean in 
  that direction in the issue and then other issues as time permits 
  are there any other.
Manu Sporny:  Changes to the agenda today.
Manu Sporny:  The other the other question we might want to 
  explore is we've heard from at least three people that have said 
  that they want to be on these calls but it's at a bad time for 
  them so there's a question around asking if we if we asking the 
  community group if people would prefer a different time so we 
  could maybe put that out to the list as well so I'll put that on 
  the agenda.

Topic: Relevant Community Updates

Manu Sporny:  Each other here so we can skip introductions and 
  reintroductions and go to relevant Community updates any relevant 
  Community updates other than the standard rebooting is coming up 
  please register w3c tpack is coming up please register and iiw is 
  coming up in November in registered for that as well.
Manu Sporny:   Anything else that.
Manu Sporny:  I would like to announce.
Manu Sporny:  Okay that will do it for oh actually there's one 
  more that is I'd see the matrial get Tina in a second chappie I/O 
  so chappie now has the ability ability.
<manu_sporny> chapi.io playground now has the ability to use 
  different issuer back-ends that are powered by the VC Issuer API: 
  https://playground.chapi.io/issuer
Manu Sporny:  Bility to use different issuer back ends that are 
  powered by the VC API VC issue or API.
<manu_sporny> We have added Mavennet as an implementer of the VC 
  issuer and verifier API: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-api-issuer-test-suite/
Manu Sporny:  I'll put that in the chat Channel and the other 
  interesting piece of news is that getting another link we have 
  another implementer of the VC issuer API we have added Maven Nets 
  as an implementer of the DC issuer and verifier API.
Manu Sporny:   And that.
Manu Sporny:  Up to five active implementers that are 
  implementing against the API.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Does that list include DCR Cassidy.
Manu Sporny:  As not but we would love to have BCC in that list.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah please please on one of the early 
  implementers.
Manu Sporny:  So Dimitri you put yourself on the cue and I do 
  have a question for you on getting you in that in that go ahead.
<kerri_lemoie> Plugfest 2: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/plugfest-2-2022/
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Right the other announcement is the day before 
  IW the next jobs for the future interop Fest is going to be 
  happening so this is plugfest to testing specifically issuing 
  protocols so we're looking for either vendors that have 
  implemented issuers or vendors that have been implemented 
  credential wallets or both so there's a sign up form but you 
  should sign.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And point out which one you're implementing 
  and which protocol into use so VC API is one of the three 
  protocols that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  We're expecting people to implement that we 
  want to be testing against.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So reminder for everybody if you haven't 
  considered participating in jmf plugfest do consider.
<kerri_lemoie> Registration Form: 
  https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdIhSjlJhLmi1Y_jV3q_7ywlHYP4rNCqQiY04CDUxwixHBNrA/viewform
Dmitri Zagidulin:  If you haven't filled out the registration 
  form do fill it out and that's it.
Manu Sporny:  Awesome thank you Dimitri yes super important 
  plugfest for this year it's the well I think one of the most 
  important plug fests that's going on over the next year let me 
  share window here just wanted to go back and show folks around a 
  sure back end so in order to support the jff plugfest at least 
  through the chappie interface.
Manu Sporny:   Is there's now this.
Manu Sporny:  Icon here in the top right and you can select the 
  issuer's right now it's only digital bazaars v c JS front-end 
  issuance thing that that has that happens there so for example 
  you can click on an alumni credential and click generate 
  verifiable credential in the proof here is generated by the web 
  page through the vcg S application but the very next set of 
  features that we're going to be releasing our the.
Manu Sporny:   The issuer back end so we will then.
Manu Sporny:  Allow selection of different issue or back ends 
  that the credential can be issued through and then you can store 
  that in the wallet there are also plans to do it off flow sorry 
  decentralized identifier flow through this yes Dimitri go ahead.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Okay so first of all that's really exciting I 
  really like this UI and this is going to be useful in the 
  plugfest as well my question is of course authentication as in as 
  in does.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Did you expect that chappie IO when handing 
  off the request.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  To a particular issuer to have some sort of 
  token authentication header or are we expecting it to be 
  unlocked.
Manu Sporny:  Um let's see for did authentication there a couple 
  of answers there right so did authentication see it's BP.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  48 Sorry API authorization I should be this 
  is.
Manu Sporny:  API authorization right now in the test Suite is 
  either completely open so you do 20 authorization you can use 
  oauth2 or you can use the Caps or the test Suite supports all 
  three mechanisms today.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Awesome thank you.
Manu Sporny:  The the so just kind of drilling to your question a 
  bit more this is the latest VC API issuer test Suite run it runs 
  every Sunday against everyone's live implementations as we can 
  see here API catalogs and implementer Dan UTech digital bizarre 
  Maven that insecure key and as you can see we're not all passing 
  the tests initial bizarre is embarrassingly the worst compliant 
  one.
Manu Sporny:   One on here.
Manu Sporny:  We have test Suites from what I remember API 
  catalog uses oauth 2 digit bizarre uses oauth to Dan UTech I 
  believe you're open right now Marcus Maven that is a loss to and 
  I forget secure key like I don't know if you remember.
Manu Sporny:  Okay okay okay oh and I'm sorry I totally misspoke 
  digital bazaars ecaps so we support both a lot to and Z caps 
  clearly we're not expecting anybody else to support Z caps but we 
  wanted to make sure that people knew that we have a delegated 
  authorization based mechanism that does work against the API and 
  we have implemented for that so all three forms.
Manu Sporny:   Read is that was that the.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I guess I was hoping that at least I'll have 
  to is supported it sounds like it is so we're good.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah absolutely yep yeah yeah we are yeah we're 
  certainly I think we'll get knocked if we don't support you know 
  at least oauth2 and then multiple forms so yeah we're I think 
  we're good there the on the issue or side on the on the chappie 
  side.
Manu Sporny:  Well anyway it don't worry it's going to be there 
  if it's not there it's going to be there right in very short 
  order and this is already a demonstration that we already have 
  infrastructure that supports all three right okay all right so 
  that's that and then the addition of Maven net was a happy thing 
  this week the other thing about did on with the authentication 
  that did authentication PR has been merged at this point Mike 
  Farley we had.
Manu Sporny:   Rest number of your concerns there.
Manu Sporny:  And you know should this be an array of objects or 
  not and Dmitry or concerns around should we have this P an object 
  or not and so for both accepted methods and accept crypto sweets 
  it isn't Ray of objects where each object at a minimum specifies 
  like for did methods the method name in for crypto sweets the 
  crypto sweet name.
Manu Sporny:   And that's it those were the.
Manu Sporny:  Talked about last week and those have been applied 
  and things are there and in so then the question becomes you know 
  in jmf.
Manu Sporny:   Are we.
Manu Sporny:  I think people did all through the VC API are we 
  expecting them to did all the true chappie in that is probably 
  something we should queue up for a conversation in the vce you 
  call I don't know carry Dimitri are y'all planning on broaching 
  that topic at some point in the future.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Carrie.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Looks like Arizona.
Kerri Lemoie:  Hey at least I can ferment around but we're not 
  requiring a specific type of data is only that it happens.
Manu Sporny:  Okay got it.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  And so we are expecting that the choice of 
  protocol will dictate the data.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Meaning if if this issue of the swallowed only 
  works with BC API we expect that after that it supports chappie 
  we expected all three champions.
Manu Sporny:  Got it okay so I think what we may plan to do is 
  try to provide it through chappie the chappie playground and 
  through VC API endpoint as well that does did all through the VC 
  API in both mechanisms will use exactly the protocol defined in 
  this VP request spec hopefully it's detailed enough at this point 
  that people can Implement to it.
<kerri_lemoie> That's a better clarification. Thanks, Dmitri
Manu Sporny:  Any other questions comments concerns before we 
  move into the rest of the agenda.

Topic: Status of Exchange Discovery PR

Manu Sporny:  All right thanks all mixed up status of exchange 
  Discovery PR.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pull/268
Manu Sporny:  Mike this was I think adopted for merge meeting 
  like everyone was cool with merging it I think we're still 
  waiting on you to rebase any updates here.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I'm trying to figure out if this is something 
  that I can maybe do.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah something like that you see I so you basically 
  you would go to can I jump to your.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah it has merge conflicts so there's just the 
  merge conflicts need to be resolved and I'm happy to do that the 
  next time I'm in the spec if that would be helpful to you I just 
  didn't want to stop over anything you were doing.
Manu Sporny:  Things have not shifted now I think we're still in 
  the same position so whatever you you know that what you outlined 
  I think is where the group still is in and I think we're just 
  looking for this to be merged right now as a heads up this exists 
  implemented if you feel it's useful right okay all right so how 
  about this if it's not merged by this weekend I will.
Manu Sporny:  Okay all right that sounds good so we discussed 
  this on the 2020 28 call and it was decided that we will merge 
  this PR by the following all and following weekend.
Manu Sporny:  Carly will preface and merge or any will do Burge.
Manu Sporny:  Okay alright so that's that item thank you for the 
  update next.

Topic: How are client features requested in VPR?

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/280
Manu Sporny:  Our client features requested so this is issue 280.
Manu Sporny:  Um an issue to 80 let's see yeah this is a big one 
  so the question is how.
Manu Sporny:  If it's so basically there are two ways to kind of 
  discover what a client's capable of at least two that have been 
  explodes explored so far it's the kind of oid see well known 
  mechanism and the VC API kind of in protocol mechanism and to 
  summarize them bluntly the oid see mechanism you know kind of 
  publishing.
Manu Sporny:   She has all the.
Manu Sporny:  Alex of the digital wallet says I support did key 
  and did web and these types of crypto sweets and these types of 
  you know protocols right and that's published in a well known 
  well known space so that's kind of the oid see approach and then 
  the VP our approach is very much in band which is in band meaning 
  like when you're doing a presentation.
Manu Sporny:   Change the.
Manu Sporny:  Verifier goes I need to know which did methods you 
  support and you get a kind of a something back to say that and 
  then it's might say I need to know whether or not your two-factor 
  authentication right now and that happens kind of dynamically in 
  the protocol flow itself in those are kind of the two approaches 
  that have been suggested I think this one specifically has to do 
  with VPR and if the BPR mechanism is is a.
Manu Sporny:   Useful one and I think we're going to.
Manu Sporny:  Spend a bit of time on the call today kind of 
  comparing and contrasting I see Carrie and David on the Queue 
  carries that an old Q or anyone.
Kerri Lemoie:  Sorry that's a little timid with myself.
Manu Sporny:  Okay sorry I didn't ask you go ahead David.

Topic: Background on OIDC4VCI

Manu Sporny: DavidC: For OIDC, it's recognized that not every 
  wallet will be able to publish its metadata, so there is a 
  default set of metadata that is being documented in the OIDC4VC 
  specs, so you can assume wallet supports a certain set of 
  metadata if you have no other way of finding out.
Manu Sporny:  That is just kind of like it's in the spec and so 
  by default all wallets will support did key for example is that 
  what you're saying.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: There was a discussion at the meeting last 
  week, whether default metadata is mandatory to implement or not. 
  There was some disagreement about that. It's not been finally 
  nailed down, Dmitri was at that meeting, perhaps he can recall 
  more than I can.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I do remember sorry I don't remember the 
  conclusion was.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: That's my recollection as well.
Manu Sporny:  Okay okay was anything I said did mischaracterize 
  what idc's doing with with your additions David is that a proper 
  characterization of what the IDC is kind of doing.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: If there is a well known wallet that 
  everyone uses, the manufacturer would publish... the software 
  supplier, not the Holder, would publish metadata.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah okay in the in the kind of contrast that 
  approach with what is in VPR for for example we can look at did 
  authentication so this PR that just went into the VP R-Spec ass 
  in line so there is no well let's see let me try and find a 
  request.
Manu Sporny:  Kind of did all section to show how this this is a 
  bit different I'll go too.
Manu Sporny:  More of a complex example so in the VP R-Spec the 
  VC API once it you know you initiate an exchange one of the 
  queries that can come in through the protocol is I need you to do 
  did authentication in these are the in this is this is the 
  verifier saying these are the accepted methods so I support did 
  key and I support the ecdsa 2022 crypto sweet and I want you to 
  sign over this Challenge and domain basically so this.
Manu Sporny:   Is an inline thing this.
Manu Sporny:  Not published on the on the web or the internet or 
  anything like that it happens completely in line and the 
  difference there of course is that it doesn't use well-known so 
  you know chappie and other things like that use a manifest.json 
  file for some basic things around the wallet but they don't 
  express features and things that you know can be done in part of 
  the reason that the at least.
Manu Sporny:   The BPR.
Manu Sporny:  Takes this approach is because sometimes what is 
  supported is entirely dependent on what the holder has done in 
  their wallet so for example if they don't have a let's say a did 
  example didn't method registered then the wallet publishing 
  through a static file that it supports did example doesn't really 
  do any good in the actual protocol itself because.
Manu Sporny:   The individual to hold.
Manu Sporny:  Themselves have no way of doing a did example based 
  exchange right so that's one of the one of the reasons that at 
  least the VP R-Spec has made this design choice is because 
  there's some questions about capabilities about wallet features 
  that can't be answered on a generalized basis they have to be 
  answered on a specific.
Manu Sporny:  Is another example of that is like whether or not 
  the individual has to factored so a wallet may say this wallet is 
  capable of doing two Factor authentication but whether or not the 
  individual has actually turned on to factor or not is something 
  that's very specific to the holder that's in charge of that 
  wallet so again the the query for that feature comes in through 
  the.
Manu Sporny:   Verifiable presentation.
Manu Sporny:  It is not something that can easily be just 
  expressed you know publicly in a static file the finally the 
  other thing is that there may be some features that the wallet or 
  the holder don't want to publish publicly like the fact that you 
  have a specific type of did method or that you support a specific 
  type of did method from a holder perspective might not be 
  something that you know they want to just kind of publish so that 
  goes to the.
Manu Sporny:   The the the idea here.
Manu Sporny:  That you know it's been suggested that the client 
  should publish its capabilities to the to the verifier but that 
  leaks Privacy Information that leaks information that the holder 
  may not want to expose to the verifier and so the verifier at 
  least in VPR right now it's the verifier that says here's how I'd 
  like you to engage with me and that's.
Manu Sporny:   Then the.
Manu Sporny:  With engagement from the holder goes okay of those 
  mechanisms that the verifier supports this is the way I want to 
  actually engage in that and go back and forth back and forth so 
  let me stop there see if there any questions concerns comments.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: As a comment, OpenID verification has a 
  similar scheme, but uses the DIF PEv2 syntax, in that, they say 
  what format they want VPs/VCs to be in. Feasible for Verifier to 
  say different format, but VP to have JWT.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: That is a dynamic request coming from 
  verifier to wallet, using DIF PE. That is not something OIDC 
  protocol has specified itself. That's an equivalent feature.
Manu Sporny:  Yeah that that yeah understood so basically you're 
  saying that the diff presentation exchange has that feature but 
  the OIDC stuff doesn't use diff presentation exchange is that 
  right.
Manu Sporny:  Okay got it Mike you're on the Queue go ahead.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: No, it's OIDC uses DIF PE.
Mike Varley:  So two things... static config can be used in 
  OIDC... once the static config happens, then you can shift to 
  dynamic PE-based mechanism. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Manu Sporny:  I had a hard time describing that David would you 
  mind typing that in I think I followed what you were saying but 
  it was a bit hard to follow.
Manu Sporny:  Hard to describe.
<david_chadwick> In OIDC presentation, the RP is the client and 
  the wallet is the OP/Authz server
<david_chadwick> In OIDC Issuance the wallet is the client and 
  the issuer is the OP and Authz server/RS Server
Manu Sporny:  So for all IDC for VC I am I understanding this 
  correctly some of the capabilities are published through 
  well-known file in the other capabilities can be discovered 
  through presentation exchange for oid C4 VCI.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: Credential manifest has been dropped in 
  OIDC4VCI, just using snippets of it... display strings in 
  different locales.
Manu Sporny:  Dave I think you're on the cue next it won't we.
Dave Longley:  So I think one of the differences between the 
  protocols that we want to highlight here is that wallet 
  identification and client identification is a hard requirements 
  in using oid C4 R ECI whereas it is not a hard requirement using 
  just be capr Ian and VPR so it allows for more data minimization 
  for use cases where you don't need to know now what the.
Dave Longley:  My that's the difference that I think it's 
  important to highlight.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead David.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: That difference isn't correct, in the 
  pre-authorized flow, the issuer doesn't need to know who the 
  client is. The pre-authorized flow, the user goes to the issuer's 
  website, logs in, and then is displayed a QR Code which they scan 
  into the wallet, then wallet contacts authorization server. In 
  that case, authz server doesn't need to know the client -- 
  they're authenticated via pre-authorization code that was given 
  to them.
Dave Longley:  There is a read the redirection URL involved in 
  that process though right.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: You go to website, it's given a secret, and 
  you're redirection.
Dave Longley:  And that redirection URL identifies the client.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: The OIDC4VC doesn't state whether client ID 
  needs to be present.
Dave Longley:  Does the does the perhaps you're saying the that 
  that an authorization code Flows In some wall back to the to the 
  client which implies that the authorization server there was 
  there is an authorization server that the issuer is in uses in 
  some way and the user must go to that authorization server and 
  that is where the client is authenticated isn't that the case and 
  it's like unified manner.
Dave Longley:   He has so that that's is.
Dave Longley:  So that's steps not necessary for the VC API.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: Yes, that's the case.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: That happens out of band, has a secret in 
  it, sent to wallet, then wallet sends it to AZ. First time AZ 
  talks to system, it has preauth request.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yes if I can jump in there if I can jump in 
  there Dave the interesting part in that flow is that the user is 
  authenticated but the wallet is not identified but while it just 
  passes through a random string from the kip owed to the 
  authorization server so.
Dave Longley:  I don't understand how they use your wood so there 
  is the fact that there's an authorization server at all means 
  that the issuer made some kind of choice around authorization and 
  the user must go somewhere to authorize the client to to give it 
  some kind of access to do something because that's how well that 
  works and if that's the case it seems to me like the client 
  absolutely needs to be identified to the authorization server and 
  to the user where.
Dave Longley:   And that's where they make.
Dave Longley:  And an authorization code is generated.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: Right, this is another interesting point -- 
  who is the resource owner, that's who says "this client can acces 
  smy resource". One can view resource owner as being the issuer, 
  and it can revoke them, so client (user) comes to AZ with secret 
  and says "can I have an access token" and AZ can ask itself if it 
  wants to allow it.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: Assumption was initially if user is resource 
  owner, OP is giving the credential out.
Dave Longley:  Right and if that's the case the issuer is the 
  party that's working with the authorization server and that means 
  that the client must must authenticate itself in a must identify 
  itself to that authorization server and that's that's the the 
  distinction of drawing.
Dave Longley:  Yeah and my point is that in the VC API VPR 
  approach the issuer can be totally blind if you did so desire you 
  can they can be totally blind to the piece of software that the 
  user is using so they don't have to know what wallet is is being 
  used in the oid see flows it's a requirement because it's part of 
  how the security and authorization server works.
Dave Longley:  But you're taken to an authorization server where 
  you approve what wallet that is which means that it knows what 
  the wallet it.
Dave Longley:  Just by definition.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: It's the user that's authenticated, but the 
  wallet
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So it's essentially introducing another type 
  of authorization server that doesn't need to identify the client.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Yeah so you're up.
Dave Longley:  If it doesn't need to be to identify the client it 
  does that what does that mean about the user knowing which piece 
  of software they're using.
Dave Longley:  Is there an allow screen where they approve that 
  piece of software that they're using.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: If they're using cross-device flow, QR Code 
  shown on issuers website, user takes smartphone, enters wallet of 
  their own choosing, selects a wallet.
Dave Longley:  Sure and then after that the wallet makes a call 
  right to the authorization server.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So it's finding its using the limitation of 
  mobile operating system it's turning the bug into a feature it's 
  using the fact that you have to select your wallet instead of the 
  allow screen the traditional off to does Sonic sense so how does 
  the user know what software they're driving it's because they 
  opened it and click to scan QR code in that software.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  So the the permissions implicit.
Dave Longley:  But I'm so once they're in their wallet they scan 
  the QR code with their wallet and and does does the wallet ever 
  redirect them back to an authorization server where they see an 
  allow page and approve that wallet for use at the issuer.
Dave Longley:  That's fair that's very interesting okay.
Dave Longley:  I'm very curious to know more about that.
Dmitri Zagidulin: 
  https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0-05.html#section-7
<dmitriz> @dave ^
Dave Longley:  So from that qr-code.
Dave Longley:  Right so so if the user chooses any application 
  through any means of their own and then scans the QR code it just 
  immediately goes to the wallet and there's no additional step.
Dave Longley:  Is that right okay.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: That's right
Manu Sporny: DavidC: If you can't scan QR Code, ther eis a URL 
  link -- deep link, custom scheme, that will be redirected via 
  deep link to wallet. That will be configured inside users 
  machine, if it's openid, that wallet will get to scheme.
Dave Longley:  This is all very interesting but we do have a Q so 
  I'm not going to say any more at this time.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead and like.
Mike Varley:  The pre-auth is done w/ DIF-WACI like flow -- user 
  interacts w/ website, there is a bearer token that's passed 
  across to engage the wallet. The assumption is whoever picks that 
  up/makes call, gets that VC -- similar to CHAPI, whoever knows 
  the secret can pick up the credential. [scribe assist by Manu 
  Sporny]
Mike Varley:  There is no client authentication at that point. 
  [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Dave Longley:  You're on the kitty litter.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead well yeah I'm I'm yeah I'm I'm confused 
  because I was I thought there were no use of Bearer tokens in the 
  oid c4v ci-flow and now I'm here that there are the one of the 
  one of the criticisms against chappie and the VC API was that the 
  URL passed over was Bear token and now I think I'm I think I'm 
  hearing that.
Manu Sporny:   It's the same exact thing you know I.
Manu Sporny:  For VCI that approach I'm so I'm confused but maybe 
  sure.
Mike Varley:  You are absolutely correct, the pre-auth code flow 
  is what we were doing w/ CHAPI flow and WACI flow and is subject 
  to same challenges/security vulnerabilities/checks ... but it is 
  an option in the OIDC flow. The other option is you go through 
  full authorization code flow -- OIDC has many forks, pre-auth 
  flow now exists as well... authorized code flow is valid ... 
  bearer token flow, pre-auth was state of the art year/year ago -- 
  get QR Code wallet does the rest. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Dave Longley:  I don't know if I'm jumping Q should I talk now.
Manu Sporny:  You are jumping to David's next and then you're 
  after oh sorry go ahead then.
Dave Longley:  No I got kicked off the queue I think it's all 
  right okay I'll just be quick okay that's thank you Mike that's 
  interesting it looks like there's potentially multiple ways that 
  you can implement the oid see for me ci-flow I don't know if 
  that's a change in what has happened or not and I would like to 
  know since David's coming up on the Queue if that choice was made 
  to help address the problem that wall.
Dave Longley:   It's were forced to.
Dave Longley:  Because that is one reason that the design was the 
  way it was with VC API in VPR.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: I can't answer the question, only started 
  working on OIDC  when group was already under way. Two points -- 
  every OAuth code uses bearer tokens, you're not escaping bearer 
  tokens -- pre-auth has MFA, so when user scans in QR Code, if 
  issuer wants multifactor, it can ask for a PIN, send PIN to user 
  via SMS, then wallet when it gets QR Code will pop up window to 
  enter PIN then send PIN and secret to authz server.
Manu Sporny:  All right queue is empty um.
Manu Sporny:  Where to go from here.

Topic: How VPR requests client features

Manu Sporny:  Yeah go ahead Mike.
Mike Varley:  Ok, so we talked a bit about OIDC, VPR does inline 
  stuff... seems like engotiation /discovery of capabilities is met 
  by this VPR feature - is that the goal? [scribe assist by Manu 
  Sporny]
Manu Sporny:  Yeah I think fundamentally the the VC the VP R-Spec 
  specifically has one way of doing this so it doesn't branch in 
  the variety of different ways that you know oh I DC might Branch 
  the feature Discovery mechanism is purely in Channel and is 
  purely through the delivery of verifiable.
Manu Sporny:  Every feature is delivered as a verifiable 
  credential. Right I don't know if anyone else wants to you know 
  comment to that but that's effectively the design here is that 
  there's no branching there's no it can happen this way or that 
  way or this other way it's purely the VC API sorry the VC API 
  with VP are all capabilities are in Channel.
Manu Sporny:   Protected not.
Manu Sporny:  Public and and can go you know back and forth so 
  that's it.
Mike Varley:  We have discovery for API endpoints for 
  protocol/exchange... client can call discovery endpoint and based 
  on that can understand protocol, if VPR protocol, then inband it 
  can expect to see "capabilities request/statement" which it can 
  then meet or not. Particular methods/cryptosuites it can't meet, 
  then ok, end of story. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Mike Varley:  This sufficiently answers discovery/negotiation 
  requirement that comes up in open world. Are there gaps here? 
  [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]
Manu Sporny:  Like go ahead David.
Manu Sporny: DavidC: The gap that I see, I'm on my browser, 
  connect to RPs website, has login button, widget, etc... it 
  doesn't know whether my wallet talks OpenID for VC / VP  -- we 
  need something at the super protocol level that allows both 
  parties to determine which protocol. That to me is the missing 
  gap.
<dave_longley> VPR can include multiple interact URLs, one with 
  OIDC4VCI and one with VC-API
Dmitri Zagidulin:  I think what what would David what would David 
  wish list item is that for example there's a wallet selector with 
  a protocol field so like if the chappie mediator is extended to 
  say all right please before this request and by the way I'd like.
Dmitri Zagidulin:   To talk to.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Bird calls that speak this API or I'd like to 
  talk to all at speak opening to connect.
Manu Sporny:  Go ahead Longley and and we we've got three minutes 
  left in the call will have to wrap up after this comment go 
  ahead.
Mike Varley: +1 David, the client and server have to have a 
  shared starting point... or a meta-method to figure that out.
Dave Longley:  Yeah I was going to say I think we're actually two 
  minutes over because we want the w3c calls to end five before but 
  just real quick yes to what to meet you said that is one approach 
  the problem the other thing I highlighted in chat is VPR lets you 
  send multiple interact URLs and you could send if the server 
  supports both oid c4v CI + VC API that can send two different 
  URLs and let the client choose which one they want to use.
Manu Sporny:  Yep and that's already supported in the BP R-Spec 
  and and there's discussion about supporting this stuff in the in 
  the chappie wallet selector as well so we've got two two 
  mechanisms that could be utilized to do this in VPR and in in 
  chappie okay that's the call for today I'll try to get these 
  minutes out I've been bad about minutes for the past three weeks 
  so I'll try to get all this published in hopefully today.
Manu Sporny:  Give everyone for the Lively call.
Manu Sporny:  I think Mike said it best I don't know if anyone 
  feels that you know there's anything more to say about how 
  feature detection Works in VPR at least there's just one way that 
  it works the end okay so next week do we want to talk about the 
  test Suites and testing we said we were going to do.
Manu Sporny:  But I'm at a bit of a loss as to how to have that 
  conversation other than just going through you know the test 
  seats test Suites for the VC API stuff any thoughts or 
  preferences there or do we just want to do it more issue 
  processing.
<mike_varley> unfortunately I will miss next week
<mike_varley> thanks all
Manu Sporny:  Alright I'll send that question to the list and or 
  just make a judgment call all right thanks everyone for the call 
  today we'll see y'all next week.
<kerri_lemoie> Thanks!
