[2023-01-24T20:00:07.346Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2023-01-24T20:00:07.347Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2023-01-24T20:00:07.348Z]	<Patrick_(IDLab)>	present+
[2023-01-24T20:00:26.580Z]	<Patrick_(IDLab)>	present+
[2023-01-24T20:00:27.859Z]	<Greg_Bernstein>	present+
[2023-01-24T20:00:54.929Z]	<Dave_Longley>	present+
[2023-01-24T20:00:56.881Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-01-24T20:01:47.332Z]	<Nate_Otto>	present+
[2023-01-24T20:03:00.008Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2023-01-24T20:03:08.329Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2023-01-24T20:03:19.295Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-01-24T20:04:14.045Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: vcapi
[2023-01-24T20:04:38.156Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right welcome everyone to the verifiable credentials API call this is Tuesday January 24th 2023 our agenda.
[2023-01-24T20:04:39.163Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2023Jan/0055.html
[2023-01-24T20:05:09.072Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Is in here and on the agenda today go ahead and share screen we've got this agenda review followed by introductions relevant Community updates I forgot to put a pull request review on here but we've got some pull requests that folks should be paying attention to and then our agenda today is the same as the agenda last week where we spent the entire.
[2023-01-24T20:05:09.448Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  fire call talking about.
[2023-01-24T20:05:41.242Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Exchanges endpoints an authorization which was a really good discussion and so we're going to see if we can wrap that discussion up and then go onto the return status for the verifier API in API endpoints meaning of API endpoint specifying the component that they're associated with are there any other updates or changes to the agenda that we should talk about before going into.
[2023-01-24T20:05:41.517Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  to introductions and.
[2023-01-24T20:05:59.503Z]	<Nate_Otto>	q+ to introduce
[2023-01-24T20:06:04.443Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Introductions and Relevant Community Updates
[2023-01-24T20:06:08.573Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right let's do introductions and relevant Community updates is anyone new to the call or has had a change in what you're doing Nate please go ahead.
[2023-01-24T20:06:11.972Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack nate
[2023-01-24T20:06:29.195Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Hey thanks NATO here I have been working on digital credentials for about 10 years mostly open badges this is my first time to the VC API call I do hope to implement this API especially for issuer but probably also are also for verifier use cases in the coming months.
[2023-01-24T20:06:50.289Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Awesome excellent welcome Nate in for those of you that don't know Nate Nate is awesome so we're super excited that you're here Nate and even more excited that you're looking at an implementation any other introductions are relevant Community updates go ahead Patrick.
[2023-01-24T20:07:07.859Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): That's just a heads up so we'll know in two weeks where I can have a full-time test developer ideal and so we are looking at probably making some contributions to various this sweet like the VC API this with is probably going to be one we're going to look at so.
[2023-01-24T20:07:30.219Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That's excellent news thank you Patrick there is a tremendous amount of tests we Ting that we're going to be doing in the verifiable credentials working group over the next couple of months and we could definitely use some help there if you're interested just to get put that on your radar if there's interest.
[2023-01-24T20:07:36.870Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Hello invites him probably not next week but the week after and production.
[2023-01-24T20:08:03.816Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay okay sounds good the other kind of heads up the folks is the verifiable credentials working group face-to-face meeting is happening in Miami in 3 weeks 2 weeks something like that February 14th ish so if you have not booked your tickets or hotel like I have not you should do it soon before prices go way high up.
[2023-01-24T20:08:04.209Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  it's a three-day in-person event.
[2023-01-24T20:08:24.545Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You're required to be a w3c member to attend automatically but they also allow invited experts you need to talk to the chairs if you want to go and as an invited expert or just an observer and they have already let a couple people in to be there and observe.
[2023-01-24T20:08:30.245Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay I think that's it any other updates announcements.
[2023-01-24T20:08:48.308Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Oh Patrick I forgot to ask you about the Microsoft Entra thing, do you have a link.
[2023-01-24T20:09:02.844Z]	<Patrick_(IDLab)>	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i6TzzUZGYQU
[2023-01-24T20:09:03.550Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Oh yeah sure to YouTube video so it was just a presentation to trust over IP from here.
[2023-01-24T20:09:21.002Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Awesome great thanks so that's on Microsoft entra presentation at trust over IP okay now pull requests.
[2023-01-24T20:09:18.963Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Pull Requests
[2023-01-24T20:09:38.363Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pull/323
[2023-01-24T20:09:51.963Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um we have three pull requests the first one was done by Andrew to add verifiable presentation request property the goal here is good but the pr is wrong and we're just waiting for Andrew to update it he's not around until beginning of February so it's just.
[2023-01-24T20:09:52.398Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  just a structural change.
[2023-01-24T20:10:25.466Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: To this PR so I think that's what we're waiting on there the next one Nate you opened in the discussion here we had quite a lengthy discussion about this it's question was you know do we want error conditions standard error conditions what should we do we had a long conversation about it's in the group two weeks ago Nate you chimed in with a couple of thoughts Nate do you want to add anything to kind of.
[2023-01-24T20:10:26.038Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  what's going on with this PR.
[2023-01-24T20:10:55.395Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Yeah it's correctly marked as draft meaning not intended for merging at the moment I can put some more work into it if there is a clear direction to go it seems that one thing that came up was that people liked the idea of being able to respond with various different error codes but not include any response body at all but then if the response body is included to have it match a predictable schema.
[2023-01-24T20:10:55.760Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto:  and then also we.
[2023-01-24T20:11:23.176Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: You better make the error responses machine processable the inclusion of a specific error code in addition to a kind of more freeform textual message might require us to look into a what enumeration do we want to use for those codes and list something out within the document.
[2023-01-24T20:11:54.429Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Great thank you Nate yeah so I maybe we should talk real quick about like direction for this so I agree with everything you said Nate I think that's the the read from the group is like we should at least do HTTP status codes in try to convey as much information as we can through that we didn't want to mandate that every HTTP error resulted in a are response but if there was an error.
[2023-01-24T20:11:54.836Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  a response that.
[2023-01-24T20:12:02.278Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The implementer wanted to give that it matched a specific format.
[2023-01-24T20:12:09.807Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I don't I mean it feels like well go ahead Dave Longley.
[2023-01-24T20:12:29.005Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Sure so I think also where we got to was we didn't want to specify a specific error schema until we had a concrete case where we needed to do it because otherwise it would just be the effectively this untested speculative thing that we didn't know if it worked well or not.
[2023-01-24T20:12:41.186Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I didn't I didn't get that from the conversation that's fine it makes sense I guess we we already have defined in our schema in the spec like it exists.
[2023-01-24T20:13:12.323Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah we don't it's not good yeah we did discuss that last time how it has some some problems and things that people weren't expecting and how my personal preference is probably just to remove that schema until we have a clear error that we need to model and make sure that it a that we have consensus from the group on how it should look and that might not even come up and if it doesn't come up then I don't.
[2023-01-24T20:13:12.818Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  we should do anything because we just don't know.
[2023-01-24T20:13:16.492Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Commentation experience with.
[2023-01-24T20:13:24.427Z]	<Nate_Otto>	q+ could present use cases for error generation
[2023-01-24T20:13:32.489Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We should check with Ori and the trace folks because they were super happy that we had a standard error schema I think they might be using it already and that would give you your your use case I guess go ahead.
[2023-01-24T20:13:36.656Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack nate
[2023-01-24T20:14:02.092Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Yeah I think if the issue is that we haven't identified use cases for why there wouldn't be an error response you know I can help generate those as an action item or I don't think it would be too hard to generate some of them a couple that I had been looking at was because the spec is so light on authorization it would sometimes be helpful to be able to have an answer as to why a particular request was not authorized with a certain authorization token.
[2023-01-24T20:14:02.581Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto:  but another request.
[2023-01-24T20:14:35.469Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Fine and I also like that there was a error schema that enabled me to express simple things like that on the level of here is a message that applies to the entire request as a whole and other use cases in more in the 400 error category where that data was sent by the client often require identification of a specific field that was in error or whether their messages apply to everything.
[2023-01-24T20:14:35.957Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto:  and I think that coming up with use cases for that.
[2023-01-24T20:14:55.040Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Complex and we probably don't want to take on the work to get that fancy with our schema for now but I did find a lot of value in having kind of some error schema that could be expressed where I could potentially work with multiple different pieces of software in the.
[2023-01-24T20:14:59.925Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Got it the Dave does that meet your use case bar of having a use case.
[2023-01-24T20:15:28.430Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I mean if we can formalize that and I think that's fine I think one of the biggest problems we have with the existing error schema I think both Joe and I spoke to it was the use of an ID field for a code which is inconsistent with the rest of the API and it also made it seem like you could maybe look that a specific instance of an error up later and that's not what that field in the current error schema was meant to be and so we discussed using something like name.
[2023-01-24T20:16:01.695Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: One and web errors or something like code which is common in other apis but code might imply like doesn't have to but to some people it implies using numbers or something like that and that that also has a bunch of other implications and I think would be simpler for us to just go with named errors and I don't know how that will work with the traceability folks maybe there's a backwards compatibility path maybe doesn't matter.
[2023-01-24T20:16:02.076Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  her butt.
[2023-01-24T20:16:07.844Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: If we do develop in formalize these use cases would prefer the schema to go in that direction.
[2023-01-24T20:16:19.308Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right so I am a should get a rock.
[2023-01-24T20:16:22.569Z]	<Nate_Otto>	+1 I'm fine with named errors rather than coded errors. Avoiding the need to enumerate many codes.
[2023-01-24T20:16:36.495Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And Ari is input on this from the the side on their need for are schemas.
[2023-01-24T20:16:42.880Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So what about a next step on this.
[2023-01-24T20:17:13.197Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So I think next steps are we want when I think we need to say here's an API and when it throws this error we need this kind of information back from it and so this is how the does the information that would need to be in an error and ideally we have I mean just one of those is probably good enough but ideally we have a few of them so we can figure out some whether or not this approach will work across multiple API calls I think.
[2023-01-24T20:17:13.688Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  the other comment.
[2023-01-24T20:17:44.777Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Make try not to talk too fast the other comment I would make is Nate you mentioned the spec is light on authorization I think we have either a pending issue or something to discuss about doing a better job of saying which endpoints are authenticated and which ones aren't and it might be for those things depending on the type of authorization you use their might already be standardized.
[2023-01-24T20:17:59.235Z]	<Nate_Otto>	q+ authentication vs authorization
[2023-01-24T20:18:02.639Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: There are codes that we would expect people to use in the case that you did not provide authorization on one of these endpoints so might not even be that we would Define something specifically here other than to say go use this Speck over there.
[2023-01-24T20:18:06.270Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I had Mitri.
[2023-01-24T20:18:11.606Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Is was made before me.
[2023-01-24T20:18:14.761Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I'm sorry yes go ahead mate.
[2023-01-24T20:18:43.298Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: You're just very briefly wanted to specify I wasn't talking about presence of authentication or not I was talking about use cases by which certain credential requests should be denied for an issue based on permissions you authorization to do a certain action rather than authentication that a user was a certain entity or not so like yeah I agree there there's a clear difference status code level between like you didn't include an authorization.
[2023-01-24T20:18:43.686Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto:  an off header.
[2023-01-24T20:19:03.306Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Your auth token included was invalid the that is a different issue usually for a one then a permissions based authorization failure like you cannot award a credential that is blue you can only award red credentials that's a far three.
[2023-01-24T20:19:28.338Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: And I think the spec is correct to be silent on what types of authorization failures might exist because it's just not the scope of the spec it's not the purpose of it but it is very interesting to me to build software that can enforce a whole bunch of different authorization rules on the issuer endpoints.
[2023-01-24T20:19:34.511Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: So I want to be able to express our messages in a predictable way.
[2023-01-24T20:19:41.531Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Thanks Nate Dimitri.
[2023-01-24T20:19:43.123Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-01-24T20:19:46.276Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack nate
[2023-01-24T20:20:11.075Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: I wanted to add a comment to what Dave said that some of the authorization methods used by implementers like all off to dictate their own error format and so it might be useful for us to either follow that error format or at least have it be isomorphic so for example oauth2.
[2023-01-24T20:20:26.548Z]	<Transcriber>	Dmitri_Zagidulin: Defines the fields error description and error URI and then the commonly used name and Status codes and they've mentioned that's it.
[2023-01-24T20:20:43.938Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Great thanks to meet Ray yes important to keep that in mind as well okay so there's a PR here in what ways can Nate change it or document it to move it forward.
[2023-01-24T20:21:17.037Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So highlight Nike title highlighting a number of use cases where error codes are useful talking specifically to an end point that is going to use these error codes and then in then providing some guidance in the general response object Nate I don't know if you feel like you've got enough to kind of go on there if you wanted to put something together were I'm clearly I'm not trying to volunteer you but.
[2023-01-24T20:21:49.589Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: I would be perfectly happy to put some time into this in the next couple weeks I don't think that I have a sense that the group is at consensus on you know something that would be good enough that everyone would like it at this point but I could take a stab at adding some of those use cases very briefly into the document and then I have no idea right now what to do about the eye the schema itself that's in there if that needs an immediate.
[2023-01-24T20:21:50.182Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto:  action to address the fact that we're using a ID instead.
[2023-01-24T20:21:55.016Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: If modification there would be acceptable.
[2023-01-24T20:22:23.242Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah I think maybe waiting for the trace folks to give some feedback because they might have already done something here in maybe asking them hey we're trying to move away from IDs and just two names would you object to that and see see if they have any input before attempting to change the schema I think separating the two maybe just talking about use cases would be you know.
[2023-01-24T20:22:42.893Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Act that talks about the are schema and the use cases around it and then that can be a PR and then we can take a look at it and if we are okay with that then hopefully that helps us with the actual scheme itself.
[2023-01-24T20:23:03.470Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: The other thing I could look into is how to express the optional response body type thing with in Json xerath in open API I think that would is I think there's an approach that I just haven't actually done that particular documentation before and so if that's something we want I could look into them.
[2023-01-24T20:23:05.872Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah I think that would be super helpful as well.
[2023-01-24T20:23:30.130Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay well let's just say like you know there's some next steps there and it's up to you Nate if you want to drive that forward or you know do again like if or somebody else you know can can do it if you get busy or someone else feels like they they want to put something together there okay that's that PR.
[2023-01-24T20:23:38.075Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Um the next PR up is 334.
[2023-01-24T20:23:42.076Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/pull/334
[2023-01-24T20:24:11.171Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: In this is well this is says it's fixing the errors in the OAS files but the errors that the linter was kicking out was that we didn't Define security for endpoints so this a year ago was a Perma thread-like very contentious topic where we couldn't just pick one authorization mechanism for endpoints are os Linton continues to fail because we haven't defined security.
[2023-01-24T20:24:11.564Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  we know that people will.
[2023-01-24T20:24:43.757Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: To find no security we know that people will object if we Define a very specific type of Security based on implementations we have at least four types of security authorization that people have implemented including no authorization whatsoever authorization capabilities did based authorization and oauth2 so in an attempt to quiet the linter I have.
[2023-01-24T20:24:44.129Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  defined these for security schemes because.
[2023-01-24T20:24:44.184Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We do have.
[2023-01-24T20:25:10.515Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: People that have implemented all of them and and more than one in some cases and then apply those security schemes to all of the endpoints now it's a bit it's super like the oauth2 part of it's wrong I think.
[2023-01-24T20:25:36.100Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: But I couldn't the linting stuff says you have to define a flow and you have to Define you know if it's there's an author of saying you have to define a URL in a token URL and you have to Define Scopes and it's like I don't think we're ready to do that but that's what it kind of you know requested let me stop there see Patrick's on the Queue and then Dave.
[2023-01-24T20:25:48.238Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah just I told you forgot to leave a comment I was wondering so on the end points where you apply them you don't include the did odd was that voluntary or involuntary.
[2023-01-24T20:26:17.574Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Voluntary I didn't we only do did all that on one of the endpoints I think and I forgot it's the exchanges and point that's the only part that we've seen implementations used it ought to date and so that's the only one I put it on for now I think the presumption here is like we can add and remove things as we see fit this is just you know temperature check for the group to see if like this is the worst thing ever.
[2023-01-24T20:26:17.952Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  or if people feel.
[2023-01-24T20:26:22.049Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We're ready to at least take this first step.
[2023-01-24T20:26:27.093Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Sorry the first step being what.
[2023-01-24T20:26:40.519Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: This PR just defining it so normally you'd put like you know in this in for example what's on my screen for oauth2 normally you would list Scopes here and I just haven't done that right.
[2023-01-24T20:26:44.745Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Okay it's more of like a placeholder type of field.
[2023-01-24T20:27:11.529Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah it's yeah it's basically to say for this endpoint you can use any of these security mechanisms to secure it so including not putting any authorization on it at all right and then we'll parameterize it as the months roll on and we get a better understanding of how to do this correctly Dave Europe.
[2023-01-24T20:27:39.449Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I think my only concern with this is with those with two endpoints you highlighted that you said were wrong maybe we can do something similar there and put TBD or customizable or something like that I mean even saying you have to use an authorization code is probably not right since the there are flows that involve this preauth code in other ways and.
[2023-01-24T20:28:10.636Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: At least that that is how the exchanges API can work so it's if we can somehow get some text in there that makes it clear that we don't intend we're not telling people that you have to build it this way because people eat will easily forget that and may say well this is what spec says you're not doing with spec says and it could easily not work for some people.
[2023-01-24T20:28:13.059Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I don't know how to do that in OAS.
[2023-01-24T20:28:21.956Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Well I mean it's free form right oauth 2 / authorized you just type that so it could just be you know TBD and leave it as long as it passes linting.
[2023-01-24T20:28:34.668Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: As long as people don't think it's Daniel Buckner's company the new Square yeah okay so how about this I'll suggest this as a change.
[2023-01-24T20:28:56.819Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: If that passes linting that's that's fine with me would also be good at there was I don't know if there's a way to say you don't have to use authorization code because it also reads us or a potential interpretation of this is you have to use authorization code we just don't know what the invoice will be so there's a way to comment on that too.
[2023-01-24T20:29:20.038Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah OS is does not like leaving things to the imagination I'll try to lie look for a little bit to figure out like how we could get around the linting errors but it's you know if you say it's of type oauth2 than it has a schema that you must must meet and so we've got to figure out a way.
[2023-01-24T20:29:31.072Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: We invent another thing we do we invented these other names so we could invent a with two dash V Capi or something and then leave it blank.
[2023-01-24T20:29:39.662Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah that's another option for now.
[2023-01-24T20:29:41.389Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I see like maybe okay yep I see so not say oauth2 but say type HTTP and okay all right yeah we'll figure out a way to try it.
[2023-01-24T20:30:12.539Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Not specify things that we are trying not to specify okay any other concerns about this PR I mean it'll probably I'm going to give it like a week or two more just in case anyone here has a better idea of how we could do it the other thing that the pr does is you are required to put servers in there like these are live servers that you can hit and I was going to try and pull the.
[2023-01-24T20:30:12.989Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  a list from.
[2023-01-24T20:30:41.341Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: VC API implementations we have like we have like nine or ten servers in potentially Auto build this list just you know requires time and writing code to do that didn't have the time to do that so the idea here is that this before this PR goes in will try and list all the servers and the VC API because they do list and points there.
[2023-01-24T20:30:46.413Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And then of course if we can auto-generate it even better.
[2023-01-24T20:30:52.950Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay any other thoughts on this PR before we move into the main agenda.
[2023-01-24T20:31:14.987Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Do the /exchanges/* endpoints need authz?
[2023-01-24T20:31:19.290Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/279
[2023-01-24T20:31:28.949Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: All right okay so those are all the pull requests that we have the next item up is through the exchanges endpoints need authorization and we had a very long discussion about this last week as PR or sorry as issue 279.
[2023-01-24T20:31:44.377Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And this was our discussion last week towards the end it felt like we were converging on something that could get to consensus.
[2023-01-24T20:32:00.115Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Let's see last bit said was did anyone have concerns around a given exchanges endpoint should be a URL capability or establish authorization through an exchange flow itself.
[2023-01-24T20:32:21.114Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: On carp had a problem because they were private endpoints we noted that these endpoints are not necessarily private but you have to interact elsewhere to get it there are multiple options for effectively getting this URL this one off URL this capability URL.
[2023-01-24T20:32:27.386Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And Alan noted that you don't need authorization to hit it for the first time.
[2023-01-24T20:32:37.522Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: When it's part of a flow you effectively get a capability to invoke so I'm I guess I'm a bit lost on where we got last week go ahead Jo.
[2023-01-24T20:32:51.822Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah I'm not sure where we got either but one thing is marinating on it it does seem to me that there were two things one trigger by Ellen's comment.
[2023-01-24T20:32:57.072Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah yeah we can hear you.
[2023-01-24T20:33:27.219Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Hello is I think it's very different between the different endpoints for example between the issuer coordinator and the issuer is verified coordinator and the verifier service those seems like they should be secured through some mechanism whereas I'm not sure that a holders interaction with the verifier coordinator needs it.
[2023-01-24T20:33:27.578Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu:  it like I think that should be up.
[2023-01-24T20:33:51.196Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Our coordinator to decide based on their business rules whether or not they need off or not but with regard to what Alan said here I would think establishing off see through the exchange flow is still having Aussie on that exchange flow but maybe I'm missing a technical Nuance that's embedded in the question.
[2023-01-24T20:34:24.802Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I think I think what Alan was saying still fits into the the quote that we have their it given exchanges and point should be a URL capability or establish all see through the exchange for itself because either we have the case where you're using a URL capability you you know it's not an advertised URL you had its it has sufficient Randomness in it so that you couldn't.
[2023-01-24T20:34:25.306Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  produce or guess that URL at you someone had to give.
[2023-01-24T20:34:58.069Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: For you to use it or we have the case that you have that there is a hesitate to use the word public because Joe hates that word but but Alan was using that word or you have this you know what Alan described as a public URL something that anybody could hit and the first time you hit that URL you might for example be given a verifiable presentation request that you must respond to an in so in that respect.
[2023-01-24T20:34:58.545Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  response some kind of all Z is going to be established.
[2023-01-24T20:35:09.669Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Through the exchange flow and so I do think that that quote that we had sort of covers what I expect to be both cases that we have.
[2023-01-24T20:35:27.766Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Are there you didn't know the URL and you had to be given it so it's a URL capability or there's a URL that's out there and when you hit it you will for whatever the business case is you'll establish all see through the through the actual Flow by using a point.
[2023-01-24T20:35:34.951Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: It makes sense to me.
[2023-01-24T20:35:45.545Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay so the question was do the exchanges endpoints need Odyssey.
[2023-01-24T20:35:50.559Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Those to cover where you do need Otzi is their use case where they don't.
[2023-01-24T20:35:55.966Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Like it's just a bear credential first first come first serve.
[2023-01-24T20:36:18.608Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So I think what we came in the conversation that we had last week we said there would still be some kind of all to see ultimately in those situations because we wouldn't expect the if there's literally no limit on giving out credentials like that even first come first serve it doesn't seem like the credential has any value.
[2023-01-24T20:36:52.369Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: So you would expect that there would be a even if the endpoint is advertised in public it would be which would probably be quite unusual but even if it were you would expect it would be like a limited number of credentials that would be given out by that endpoint and that's all that means is by the time you hit one plus one over the limit you're going to be rejected and so you would not be authorized and so that's still implies that there's some kind of control over using that endpoint.
[2023-01-24T20:37:06.539Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Well I guess I could torture out some use cases like just a proof that the service is running you know get me BC from your server that convinces me your servers running.
[2023-01-24T20:37:26.658Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Even then it might be rate limited but I at that point we are torturing what authorization means is so it's I'm questioning what dou you what piece of information what kind of conclusion conclusion we trying to come to here when we get into that area.
[2023-01-24T20:37:44.202Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: I'm starting to wonder if we need to even answer the question if we go through and we specify all the endpoints in the ways that you can do aught see aren't we done.
[2023-01-24T20:37:56.470Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I think we are but that's just my opinion I kind of just jumped right in that that's that that's to me that sounded like the right thing to do just to enumerate all the possibilities number done.
[2023-01-24T20:38:19.572Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: I mean by my sense for the coordinators is since that's about the business rules of the party who's trying to facilitate that particular exchange you know maybe they maybe they don't want it but I think we can talk through that on an endpoint by endpoint basis or component by component if it's if we're really just talking about the exchanges.
[2023-01-24T20:38:26.016Z]	<TallTed>	s/in the ways that you can do aught see/and the ways that you can do authz,/
[2023-01-24T20:38:46.929Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay all right good then that's that gives us like a good concrete way of getting through this question and we can get out of the philosophical discussion into a concrete discussion about whether or not the endpoint can can do otzi's mechanisms X y&z okay great so the next step here is effectively to close this issue after we have specified.
[2023-01-24T20:38:59.632Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Mechanisms exist for each endpoint next step in please someone challenge that if you disagree.
[2023-01-24T20:39:10.698Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: My only question is is this you said for all the endpoints is it still all the exchanges endpoints like is there a shift in scope about what we need to specify.
[2023-01-24T20:39:19.358Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: We will inevitably through the OAS files talk about each class of exchanges endpoint.
[2023-01-24T20:39:22.659Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Okay so we're going to do some work anyway and that will address this.
[2023-01-24T20:39:28.826Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Exactly and I think that work.
[2023-01-24T20:39:34.777Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The work doesn't start here but yeah that's basically like.
[2023-01-24T20:39:52.417Z]	<Nate_Otto>	q+
[2023-01-24T20:39:58.085Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It's this pull request it's this one the fixed linting errors because it specifies the type of security on the end of each endpoint in this tells you very clearly whether or not this endpoint needs lots of you're not right in this answer is like.
[2023-01-24T20:40:28.583Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: You can do no authorization or oauth2 or is he caps those are options and we do have one for exchanges here where we specify the security on the exchanges and point and then per transaction as well I think one second let me get back to the queue.
[2023-01-24T20:40:31.277Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: No then go ahead and eat.
[2023-01-24T20:40:32.052Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack nate
[2023-01-24T20:40:59.971Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Just suggesting that the pull request titled about linting errors it would be nice if we didn't expand the scope of that into a whole debate about which answers should be correct about which auth sun which endpoints get an initial thing down merge that and I would suggest doing the issue work around which endpoints need which off as individual fixes to that later.
[2023-01-24T20:41:12.277Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah huge plus 12 that let me go ahead and make that note in here too far back.
[2023-01-24T20:41:40.973Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: The intent of this PR is not to establish the correct odd see mechanisms for each endpoint that will be done in the future he our goal here is to get close enough and then.
[2023-01-24T20:42:11.595Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Fine tune fiancée mechanisms in our future PR not take the Nazi mechanism is instead provided as for anything more than Rock in progress time we actually put that up in the actual PR.
[2023-01-24T20:42:21.239Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-01-24T20:42:26.306Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: There we go so we're at stated now very clearly go back Q Patrick go ahead.
[2023-01-24T20:42:31.941Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Just want to make sure I understand when you say no a lot that's literally mean the authorization is optional or that endpoint.
[2023-01-24T20:42:57.353Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It means it is an option to not do authorization we do have some implementers that have like it's a totally open end point anybody can hit it in most of us like that's not a good way to deploy production software but some people are like well you know what happens if I have complete internal control of the network you know and I don't want to pay the cost.
[2023-01-24T20:42:57.677Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  at that particular.
[2023-01-24T20:43:03.891Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Stack so that's the argument for like.
[2023-01-24T20:43:08.231Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Right if it's strictly internal component component okay.
[2023-01-24T20:43:34.560Z]	<Nate_Otto>	Yeah, there may be a bug in the intent of "noAuth" here, don't know what "bearer": "emptystring" will do but that can be fixed to properly mean "auth header(s) are optional".
[2023-01-24T20:43:38.756Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep you got it yep it's closed insurance we sign with that sign what security are on an endpoint all right so basically once we do this work to make sure we are okay with the authorization mechanisms assigned to each endpoint in the API we can close this issue because it will have answered the question about.
[2023-01-24T20:43:39.097Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  about what types of.
[2023-01-24T20:43:40.290Z]	<Dave_Longley>	we might want to define "noAuth" as "firewall" or something instead
[2023-01-24T20:43:43.810Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Relation are there for each endpoint.
[2023-01-24T20:43:52.416Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Does anyone disagree with that and I'll get to your comment there Nate.
[2023-01-24T20:44:23.349Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay I'm gonna basically put that in so that's good Nate you mentioned this looks wrong because it is totally wrong I just made this up like this is this is I couldn't figure out a way around the lint there is no there is no no there's no null security scheme so you either do security: and you turn it off entirely and 0s or you specify some kind of security scheme.
[2023-01-24T20:44:23.788Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  oh yeah totally open.
[2023-01-24T20:44:29.894Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Xing this or changing it to make it the right thing.
[2023-01-24T20:44:32.923Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	ack dave
[2023-01-24T20:44:47.059Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Do you have to specify like the scheme and bear format because if you don't have to do that we could maybe rename this to like firewall or something that signifies that its internal network network based.
[2023-01-24T20:45:10.030Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: There is a Json schema that goes along with it and it was throwing up all kinds are so I didn't have the time to look at the Json schema to see what all the options were but the thing of the thing that seemed the most open was saying that the type of authorization is HTTP in the scheme is bare and then you can do whatever you want here again like this is all wrong like it.
[2023-01-24T20:45:34.899Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Sure yeah I'm just saying when if we can figure out something better we might be two birds with one stone by changing this from knoweth to firewall or something so that it's clear that there's always authorization on these end points that were talking about but you could choose to use some kind of network configuration architecture and that's that distinguishes it from.
[2023-01-24T20:45:35.283Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  having it be an open network.
[2023-01-24T20:45:39.346Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Are you something like that.
[2023-01-24T20:45:55.133Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Or maybe just that work lot because you're you're you are depending on the security cat or S6 of the network to do authorization effectively for you.
[2023-01-24T20:45:59.903Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep that's good.
[2023-01-24T20:46:19.442Z]	<Dave_Longley>	s/stone/scone
[2023-01-24T20:46:24.989Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Topic: Verifier API should return verified VCs
[2023-01-24T20:46:27.989Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Alright good so I think we've at least got a plan on how to address this issue let's move on to the next one so the next issue up we've got about 10 minutes is the verifier API should return verified BCS.
[2023-01-24T20:46:30.619Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-api/issues/207
[2023-01-24T20:46:36.156Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Here's the link to 07.
[2023-01-24T20:46:53.328Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So this was an issue that David Chadwick raised specifying that when you verify a verifiable credential the input is a sine v c VP.
[2023-01-24T20:47:15.912Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And then the return value should return a set of validated credentials in w3c format without their proof so you should strip the proof off of them and guess strip the VP strip the proof off of them and this return back and array of credentials.
[2023-01-24T20:47:23.229Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And there's all kinds of stuff for what happens if a job go ahead Patrick.
[2023-01-24T20:47:30.602Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): When we send a ray of credential we mean the whole credential or just the credentials subject.
[2023-01-24T20:47:37.261Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah that's a good question I would imagine David meant the whole credential not just credential subject.
[2023-01-24T20:47:42.735Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Dave.
[2023-01-24T20:48:13.983Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I also think he meant the whole Grinch oh and that if you are verifying it jot you would reconstruct the credential since their deconstructed in that format I also question whether it would be a good idea to strip the proofs off you might just want to return the credentials that were verified I don't know if it's useful to remove the proofs and there.
[2023-01-24T20:48:14.330Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  might be other proofs that.
[2023-01-24T20:48:22.653Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: You would want to check or do something with depending on your use case.
[2023-01-24T20:48:39.626Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: There might be other proofs that are not assertion proofs that you might want to do something with.
[2023-01-24T20:48:40.971Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Why did I miss anything they're serving the Bruce might be not be a good idea yeah.
[2023-01-24T20:48:47.811Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead Joe.
[2023-01-24T20:49:15.254Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: It seems to me that this is most valuable for jwt's and it makes sense if I'm handing off the entire JWT base vc2 a verifier if they're going to check it and make sure it works and they have the Json give it back to me that seems very useful but the idea of stripping off the proofs of a VC that I sent them that's.
[2023-01-24T20:49:24.809Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: That seems odd so maybe we can make it optional or type-specific.
[2023-01-24T20:49:47.664Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: And I'll note that I don't I don't we haven't defined what a jaunt input inputs and outputs to the API looks like I think there's a big hand wave around what that looks like right now I think there's a desire to support that but I don't think it exists in the OS files today.
[2023-01-24T20:50:08.538Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That I'd see a Patrick give me a sec Duty input output is defined in the u.s. finals today go ahead Patrick.
[2023-01-24T20:50:29.035Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah just about this section you mentioned the JWT input outputs and the final thing that goes along with multi credential support because is it Julia T DW T consider the w3c verifiable credential or it's considered as as its own sort of credential format.
[2023-01-24T20:50:38.662Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: That is the current debate going on in the verifiable credentials working group.
[2023-01-24T20:50:48.526Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Cuz I coding is if you look at the page for the data model 1.1 there's clearly a section about JWT but there's also like it's on spec yeah.
[2023-01-24T20:51:13.025Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yeah I'm going to be very biased and say a JWT is not a verifiable credential a JWT can encapsulate a credential and secure it but there are two different things you have the outer just JWT and then the JWT has a VC property in it that contains either.
[2023-01-24T20:51:17.773Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: A verifiable credential part of the data model spec.
[2023-01-24T20:51:28.349Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Edit there's actually a third option it contains a partial credential that's missing Fields so it's yeah it's messy.
[2023-01-24T20:51:33.612Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-01-24T20:51:55.867Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay okay so well I wanted to ask the question are we concerned about performance issues by mandating the return value should the default return value be okay everything's fine and then you add an option to say I actually want you to give me back the entire verifiable.
[2023-01-24T20:52:02.160Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Met how do we how do we want to answer those questions go ahead Joe.
[2023-01-24T20:52:17.089Z]	<Transcriber>	Joe_Andrieu: Yeah I think we need to support the minimum communication possible otherwise we're going to undermine a bunch of sort of edge device iot kind of situations where you just don't have the bandwidth like every Everybody matters.
[2023-01-24T20:52:27.945Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay agree is Tyler's um I had Patrick.
[2023-01-24T20:52:28.837Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-01-24T20:52:55.185Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Smite my gut feeling would be that I don't really see the point of returning the actual VC if I mean you clearly sent it as an input it returns you if it's verified or not if it returns you the VC is just returning you what you and put in so I don't know how I maybe there's use case I don't see but just at first I thought I don't really see the point.
[2023-01-24T20:53:08.830Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Points it used to be that it was possible to put properties into the credential.
[2023-01-24T20:53:41.334Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Be silently dropped on signature and verification and it and so that's that used to be true verifiable credentials 20 has added an ad vocab property in it which now means that you will never drop never is correct I'm pretty sure let me assert that you will never drop a property in so whatever you give it if it's verified you.
[2023-01-24T20:53:41.658Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  is get the same thing back.
[2023-01-24T20:54:07.217Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: It could be that someone has messed with the verifiable credential actually no that doesn't even work I'm going to stop speaking because it feels like there used to be a use case for this and I don't know if that exists anymore.
[2023-01-24T20:54:10.760Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Patrick did I accurate did you put your car in the queue.
[2023-01-24T20:54:30.692Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): I just put myself that quickly regarding the data model 2.0 that's being drafted when when and if it gets to a point that it's published is it going to supersede that that our model 1.0 or they're both going to sort of Live And.
[2023-01-24T20:54:40.837Z]	<bshambaugh>	present+
[2023-01-24T20:54:42.556Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: They're both going to live side by side for a while I imagine you know wheel to will say it supersedes it and you should be using 20 but people won't listen to us and they'll continue to use 10 you know.
[2023-01-24T20:54:45.075Z]	<Transcriber>	Patrick_(IDLab): Yeah for whichever reason.
[2023-01-24T20:54:49.855Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Yep exactly go ahead lonely.
[2023-01-24T20:55:20.160Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: Yeah I was also going to say the 11 work doesn't get into any of the with the exception of some mapping rules for jobs so it doesn't get into how data Integrity proofs work and generally speaking modern data Integrity proof libraries will throw errors if anything is dropped regardless of whether using vc-1 one or some other context it doesn't really matter and the other point I was going to make is I think the main.
[2023-01-24T20:55:20.668Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley:  main use case for this feature is for jots you.
[2023-01-24T20:55:42.566Z]	<Transcriber>	Dave_Longley: There's just no unless the verifier returns back back to you the decoded data you can't use it because that's how jots work and so they don't have the option of functioning in the way that the data Integrity proof secured VC's do.
[2023-01-24T20:55:50.479Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Go ahead and eat.
[2023-01-24T20:56:20.108Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Yeah I don't feel like I am an expert enough at this particular endpoint and how its scope to you know be him a very helpful here but I do want to speak to the how I built the open Badges validator and how that ended up being useful to me a few years ago as a client identified a bunch of use cases for where what the output of the validator was would just sort of beat the trusted version.
[2023-01-24T20:56:20.503Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto:  of the thing that I sent in and the scope of.
[2023-01-24T20:56:51.833Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto: Totally different in that it went out and did a whole bunch of other HTTP fetches to grab Associated resources and dynamically like return to whole bunch of different stuff about the credential that was under test also and this is a totally different scope here but one as a client one way of really valuing what I got from a validator was just like oh this is the trusted version of the thing this is the canonicalized version of the thing under some particular understanding.
[2023-01-24T20:56:52.441Z]	<Transcriber>	Nate_Otto:  that I had of that.
[2023-01-24T20:57:00.370Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-01-24T20:57:20.430Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Got it right I think that resonates I mean I think what we have here is we have a clear use case Q we have a clear abuse case where this is useful for jots it's questionable on whether or not it's useful for data Integrity things secured with data integrity and it's clear that we want to have a mechanism where you want.
[2023-01-24T20:57:20.723Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  to minimize the amount of back and forth.
[2023-01-24T20:57:21.596Z]	<Nate_Otto>	(so that's a "a response body of the VC is useful sometimes" +1 to @dlongley)
[2023-01-24T20:57:52.928Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: So you want to basically be able to say like don't give me the trusted canonical form in the return value so it feels to me like the so the question is should the verifier API return verified BCS and I think the answer that I'm hearing is it's an optional feature we can talk about defaults later but I'll just assert you know the default is it's off by default.
[2023-01-24T20:58:20.388Z]	<Dave_Longley>	+1 to manu's framing
[2023-01-24T20:58:24.392Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Or can request that the return value contains the canonical form and that can be done on data Integrity versions it can be done on jwt's and if we take that approach it feels like we've got something that we can put in a PR would there be any objection to a PR like that so so basically the verifier API can return.
[2023-01-24T20:58:34.477Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: A canonical verified document and it's an optional feature where the default is off.
[2023-01-24T20:59:17.450Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: Okay the verifier API can return a canonical form after verification it is an option that is off by default let's can be on the option is valid with all types of.
[2023-01-24T20:59:39.707Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	q?
[2023-01-24T20:59:49.164Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: With all types of verifiable credentials that are secured different ways okay so that is ready for PR and noting that we are at the top of the hour is our last issue for the day you real quick one last time okay awesome great thank you that was super helpful and I think we'll give.
[2023-01-24T20:59:49.576Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  give people what they want.
[2023-01-24T21:00:23.259Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny: While making the right balance next call we will start with API endpoints that mess specify the component so this is the thing we've been wanting to do for a while and then maybe the other thing that we can do is talk about the security on those endpoints and clearly not co-mingle the to one of them's easier than the other one I think but that is what we will try and tackle next time thanks everyone for the call have a wonderful.
[2023-01-24T21:00:23.646Z]	<Transcriber>	Manu_Sporny:  full rest of your week take care bye.

