[2021-12-13T15:54:16.361Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-12-13T15:54:16.362Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> chair: Kerri_Lemoie
[2021-12-13T15:54:16.363Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2021Dec/0004.html
[2021-12-13T16:00:28.818Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:00:43.641Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:01:01.034Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	can you hear me?
[2021-12-13T16:01:06.501Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	no
[2021-12-13T16:01:15.460Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	arg. Back in moment. Thanks
[2021-12-13T16:01:34.241Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:01:37.711Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:01:42.462Z]	<Kerri>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:01:52.706Z]	<Jessica_Ch'ng>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:02:03.782Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:02:15.031Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:02:23.668Z]	<Kerri>	Hi All- I'm setting up the meeting and fixing my sound (again). We'll get going in a few.
[2021-12-13T16:02:40.353Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:02:50.429Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:02:59.183Z]	<Kerri>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:03:01.094Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:04:34.080Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:04:52.731Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:05:12.116Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:05:25.522Z]	<Jim_Kelly>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:05:45.350Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Hey all!  Kerri is having some audio-issue she is trying to fix, ICYMI.
[2021-12-13T16:06:09.722Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks, @Simone
[2021-12-13T16:06:09.723Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Topic: IP Note
[2021-12-13T16:06:33.028Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-12-13T16:06:40.670Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2021-12-13T16:06:49.326Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2021-12-13T16:06:49.327Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Topic: Call Notes
[2021-12-13T16:07:03.893Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-12-13T16:07:14.235Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:07:15.641Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	Let me know if you want me to read through the boiler plate sfuff, Kerri
[2021-12-13T16:07:29.285Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-12-13T16:07:36.185Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-12-13T16:08:07.258Z]	<John_Kuo>	I'm partially babysitting so I can't :(
[2021-12-13T16:08:33.724Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	(ok, I seem to have audio issues to..)
[2021-12-13T16:08:33.725Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Topic: Scribe Selection
[2021-12-13T16:08:41.719Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	scribe: Phil
[2021-12-13T16:08:58.941Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Simone and others with audio issues may wish to try Firefox browser.
[2021-12-13T16:09:02.013Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:09:02.015Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-12-13T16:09:10.141Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Re-intros?
[2021-12-13T16:09:10.141Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2021-12-13T16:09:37.533Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/
[2021-12-13T16:10:06.179Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20211214T170000&p1=tz_pt&p2=tz_et&p3=tz_cet&p4=tz_gmt&p5=tz_nzdt&p6=tz_nzst
[2021-12-13T16:10:14.152Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=6a4bq17no84ssnadccm0j2133g@group.calendar.google.com
[2021-12-13T16:10:19.075Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:10:20.893Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Announcements - VC-EDU task force mailing list.  Tomorrow's CCG topics is about community groups and how to best work with the CCG. Tomorrow 9:00am PST noon EST.  the link is above.
[2021-12-13T16:10:26.094Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:10:32.259Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	This is the last meeting of the year, resuming Jan. 3.
[2021-12-13T16:10:46.604Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Simone audio check?
[2021-12-13T16:10:48.969Z]	<Simone>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:10:50.991Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	So strange I had to switch browsers for my audio to work as well
[2021-12-13T16:11:04.041Z]	<Simone>	q+
[2021-12-13T16:11:14.272Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	ðŸ˜ž
[2021-12-13T16:11:17.491Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack simone
[2021-12-13T16:11:23.527Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Update to Chrome broke Jitzi audio and switching to Firefox gets around the problem.
[2021-12-13T16:11:23.528Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: Simone Ravaioli - Canada & Europe Standardization Updates
[2021-12-13T16:12:10.483Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Simone -  sharing with possible actionable items for next year. Two significant workstreams in the Stds. world re: VCs happening outside the US
[2021-12-13T16:12:26.817Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:12:32.730Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	CIO strategy council in Canada working on VCs
[2021-12-13T16:12:55.281Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	Keep getting kicked out, wondering if I'll need to switch browsers as well.
[2021-12-13T16:13:43.005Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Draft specification will be shared in the minutes.  It is a sister initiative - may be people in the call participating on the discussions about the Canadian standard.
[2021-12-13T16:13:58.115Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	We should stay aligned with the Canadian workstream.
[2021-12-13T16:14:14.408Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:14:36.280Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	The other initiative is restarting in the EU, Another group CEN, is also working in this space.
[2021-12-13T16:15:22.974Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	The group is getting restarted after initial works several years ago. Now working on a business plan and new scope of work. We should have a liaison with these two efforts.
[2021-12-13T16:15:38.746Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Later see links in the chat
[2021-12-13T16:15:53.227Z]	<Simone>	https://ciostrategycouncil.com/standards/
[2021-12-13T16:16:03.195Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:11:23.528Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: End of Year Recap & Planning for 2022
[2021-12-13T16:16:47.219Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Kerri - proud of the work this group has done built on the foundational work by Kim Hamilton Duffy, and of the LER work that opened options toward VC directions.
[2021-12-13T16:17:10.936Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:17:36.659Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Now started work on both single assertion credentials with OBv3 and more complex credentials with CLRv2. Should have some candidacy for a new standard in late first quarter or second quarter of 2022.
[2021-12-13T16:17:59.997Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Have gone through a lot of use cases and now should be a focus of coming work in the new year.
[2021-12-13T16:18:18.611Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	We have two new co-chairs in Simone and Dmitri
[2021-12-13T16:18:27.613Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2021-12-13T16:19:05.852Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-ed
[2021-12-13T16:19:13.474Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	If you have thoughts for what you think VC-EDU should work on in the new year, or create issues in the Repo directly.  The Repo is in the chat.
[2021-12-13T16:19:19.147Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-12-13T16:19:27.331Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-12-13T16:20:19.077Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Phil_L_(P1): gates funding for focus on single assertion endorsement credentials to be worked on: establish a collective to work on this amongst all groups.
[2021-12-13T16:21:42.730Z]	<Simone>	CEN - European Standards Body - resuming Technical Committee TC 353  revamping standards work on Learning Technologies.  New Charter for the TC being discussed now, but things are underway  -> https://www.cencenelec.eu/european-standardization/european-standards/
[2021-12-13T16:22:29.087Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	The Pocket team is interested in being in the loop, we've made lots of progress in the area of endorsement credentials.
[2021-12-13T16:24:06.424Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Thank you Dmitri!
[2021-12-13T16:24:46.544Z]	<Simone>	Q+ to ask about Blockcerts 3.0
[2021-12-13T16:25:05.472Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Open Recognition Alliance and the Open Recognition group at the Open Skills Network has contributions to make in this endorsement skills VC design process
[2021-12-13T16:25:16.428Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-12-13T16:25:19.739Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Simone
[2021-12-13T16:26:00.281Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Email announcements on Blockcerts: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Dec/0051.html
[2021-12-13T16:26:10.645Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Highland has released Blockcerts_v3  - anyone in the community has some understanding on how the blockcerts community is doing, keeping track of their work etc.
[2021-12-13T16:26:31.000Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-12-13T16:26:42.549Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	If so please share info. Kerri has reached out to them to join us Jan. 3rd (that is the Blockcerts group).
[2021-12-13T16:26:47.703Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-12-13T16:27:43.820Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Dmitri is interested in making sure that there is sharing and cross-pollination of this space in 2022.
[2021-12-13T16:28:08.875Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-12-13T16:28:10.745Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Kerri's prediction is some draft model docs for new VCs will be out in mid-to-late VCs.
[2021-12-13T16:28:26.789Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	Cheers!
[2021-12-13T16:28:29.492Z]	<John_Kuo>	Happy holidays all!
[2021-12-13T16:28:36.605Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	With  nothing further we;ll end earlier. Happy holideas
[2021-12-13T16:28:44.594Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	Cheers!
[2021-12-13T16:28:49.440Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	THAT IS HOLIDAYS
[2021-12-13T16:28:56.163Z]	<Jessica_Ch'ng>	present+
[2021-12-13T16:29:00.744Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Cheers everyone.
