Thanks to Our Robot Overlords and Benjamin Collins for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-06-27-traceability/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2023-06-27-traceability/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Traceability Task Force Transcript for 2023-06-27

Agenda:
  https://www.w3.org/Search/Mail/Public/advanced_search?hdr-1-name=subject&hdr-1-query=%5BAGENDA&period_month=Jun&period_year=2023&index-grp=Public__FULL&index-type=t&type-index=public-credentials&resultsperpage=20&sortby=date
Organizer:
  Orie Steele, Mike Prorock, Mahmoud Alkhraishi
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords and Benjamin Collins
Present:
  Nis Jespersen , Benjamin Collins, TallTed // Ted Thibodeau 
  (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Orie Steele, Ted Thibodeau

<orie> hello
Orie Steele: +1 To short
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Benjamin Collins is scribing.
<tallted> no interop pulls ... so 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Nis Jespersen :  We are short on people today, so we will have a 
  pretty short meeting. We will merge pull requests and then call 
  it a day.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/820
Nis Jespersen :  I have not spent time on 817 and come back to it 
  when we have more to talk about it.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/821
Nis Jespersen :  For 820, we will continue it next time.
Nis Jespersen :  For 821, this is making invoice number mandatory 
  on invoices and cleaning up a few duplicate term definitions.
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/824
Nis Jespersen :  For 824, I think the intention was to frame a 
  discussion. Which seems like we can't do with this few people on 
  the call.
Orie Steele:  I agree, I'll leave a comment on the PR. I don't 
  think it's a path forward.
Orie Steele:  It breaks JSON-LD pretty badly
Nis Jespersen : 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/825
Nis Jespersen :  Mahmoud says that we stick to a generic issuer 
  organization.
Nis Jespersen :  But he's not blocking it, so I'll go ahead and 
  merge.
Nis Jespersen :  For 828 we wanted to have a consistent example, 
  so it's now pointing to the same place with the geocoordinates 
  and address.
Benjamin Collins:  Next week is July 4th
Ted Thibodeau: +1 Next call July 11
Nis Jespersen :  I suppose that means we are skipping next 
  meeting, so two weeks.
