[2023-06-27T17:32:22.326Z]	<nis>	present+
[2023-06-27T17:32:45.501Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	present+
[2023-06-27T17:33:00.324Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2023-06-27T17:34:11.309Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2023-06-27T17:34:19.249Z]	<Orie>	hello
[2023-06-27T17:35:07.601Z]	<Orie>	+1 to short
[2023-06-27T17:35:08.888Z]	<Transcriber>	scribe+
[2023-06-27T17:35:08.888Z]	<Transcriber>	Meeting: traceability
[2023-06-27T17:35:58.498Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	scribe+
[2023-06-27T17:36:36.855Z]	<TallTed>	no interop pulls ... so https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2023-06-27T17:36:40.152Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: We are short on people today, so we will have a pretty short meeting. We will merge pull requests and then call it a day.
[2023-06-27T17:36:53.446Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2023-06-27T17:37:10.428Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/820
[2023-06-27T17:37:15.411Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I have not spent time on 817 and come back to it when we have more to talk about it.
[2023-06-27T17:38:18.875Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/821
[2023-06-27T17:38:27.047Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: For 820, we will continue it next time.
[2023-06-27T17:38:57.504Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: For 821, this is making invoice number mandatory on invoices and cleaning up a few duplicate term definitions.
[2023-06-27T17:39:26.078Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/824
[2023-06-27T17:39:48.128Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: For 824, I think the intention was to frame a discussion. Which seems like we can't do with this few people on the call.
[2023-06-27T17:40:11.826Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: I agree, I'll leave a comment on the PR. I don't think it's a path forward.
[2023-06-27T17:40:30.477Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Orie: It breaks JSON-LD pretty badly
[2023-06-27T17:41:08.786Z]	<nis>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pull/825
[2023-06-27T17:41:48.272Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: Mahmoud says that we stick to a generic issuer organization.
[2023-06-27T17:42:00.404Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: but he's not blocking it, so I'll go ahead and merge.
[2023-06-27T17:42:28.513Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: For 828 we wanted to have a consistent example, so it's now pointing to the same place with the geocoordinates and address.
[2023-06-27T17:42:53.188Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Ben: Next week is July 4th
[2023-06-27T17:43:16.644Z]	<TallTed>	+1 next call July 11
[2023-06-27T17:43:20.543Z]	<Ben_-_Transmute>	Nis: I suppose that means we are skipping next meeting, so two weeks.
