Thanks to Adrian Gropper for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-06-29 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2021-06-29

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jun/0275.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions
  2. Announcements & Reminders
  3. Update on Action Items
  4. CCG 101 Survey Results
  5. Open Co-chair
Organizer:
  Wayne Chang and Heather Vescent
Scribe:
  Adrian Gropper
Present:
  Heather Vescent, Jeff Orgel, Victor, Charles E. Lehner [cel], 
  Wayne Chang, Erica Connell, Mike Prorock, Manu Sporny, TallTed // 
  Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Kristina Moss Gudrun 
  Gunnarsdottir (OET), Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Adrian Gropper, Bla≈æ 
  Podgorelec, Ryan Grant, Orie Steele, 
  FNcc57821d532dc70d98c56002e89d6954, Kayode Ezike, Phil L (P1), 
  Kristina Yasuda, David I. Lehn, Phil Archer, Charles E. Lehner, 
  Mike Schwartz
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-06-29/audio.ogg

<victor> let's bring some noise))
<mahmoud> qq for later do we need to present+ after manu changed 
  the bot?
<mprorock> mahmoud - you should not have to anymore
<manu_sporny> Mahmoud, you no longer need to present+ -- the bot 
  does it for you.
<manu_sporny> Long live our robot overlords!
<heather_vescent> Join the CCG: 
  https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
<heather_vescent> Minutes: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
<jeffo-stl> Thx for FYI re: presemt+ Manu...
<mahmoud> awesome thanks!
Adrian Gropper is scribing.
<mprorock> and we have lost heather
<manu_sporny> No volunteers

Topic: Introductions

Adrian Gropper: Blaze: researcher at Graz Iunst Tech, - looking 
  at possibilities for digital wallet
Kristina Yasuda:  Office of Ed tech US Dep't Edu - digital 
  wallets and blockchains in education [scribe assist by Adrian 
  Gropper]
Erica Connell:  Theater and film artist, learning about W3C - 
  producing a podcast about DID and DID methods - [scribe assist by 
  Adrian Gropper]
Heather Vescent:  Please return and share podcast [scribe assist 
  by Adrian Gropper]
<heather_vescent> Announcements: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/

Topic: Announcements & Reminders

<agropper> ... nothing on the announcements list - add to queue 
  please
Manu Sporny:  Update on DID spec now in second CR - looks like we 
  have enough implementations - call at 6PM to review - 2 weeks 
  left and looking good - hoping to have it in a couple of months 
  [scribe assist by Adrian Gropper]
Phil Archer:  T3 innovation ratified the charter for Learning and 
  Employment Record - announcement of kickoff in July to be 
  announced [scribe assist by Adrian Gropper]

Topic: Update on Action Items

https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
Heather Vescent:  Topic Action Items Update [scribe assist by 
  Adrian Gropper]
<heather_vescent> 194: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/194
<agropper> ... check in on #194
<agropper> ... EIP signature - just a meter of setting up the 
  repo and we can get started with the work item
<phil_l_(p1)> The Learning and Employment Record Network (LERN) 
  is part of the T3 Innovation Network of Networks initiative.  
  https://www.t3networkhub.org/

Topic: CCG 101 Survey Results

<agropper> Hear from Victor - active in CCG 101 from the start to 
  help us understand how to use volunteer resources most 
  effectively
<agropper> ... 20-25 minutes timebox
Adrian Gropper: Victor: Started in CCG 101 - am active in TOIP 
  and governance - trying to understand who is active and what they 
  think is important
<agropper> ... by sending Google Forms important to send email 
  directly - 10% of members responded
<agropper> ... created a small presentation
<mprorock> FYI - if you have chat open and screen share is not 
  showing full screen properly, close and then reopen chat
<mahmoud> not sure if me but theres tons of chopping
<agropper> ... to find out who we are and how we can move the 
  projects forward - majority joined in last three years -
<heather_vescent> (Yes, the audio is a bit choppy for me too, but 
  I can hear it)
<mprorock> mahmoud - not just you - jitsi bandwidth can be rough
<heather_vescent> (I just muted Adrian, so there is only audio 
  coming off one channel)
<heather_vescent> (audio has improved for me)
<agropper> ... creating standards or developing content for 
  promotion - the other important thin is that the majority is tech 
  pros and many in executive positions - important because 
  development can be divvied into what to develop vs. legwork / 
  coding
<agropper> ... the majority seem to be executives that decide 
  what to develop - it's much more important to find people to do 
  the development - "I think"
<manu> This is really great data...
<mprorock> manu +1 really insightful on what is actually going on 
  from an active user standpoint
<agropper> ... half of the people have a good idea of what they 
  want to do development - not sure if that's a good conclusion - 
  want feedback
<agropper> ... see there's a need in active participation of gov 
  officials - it's challenging to attract gov due to the specifics 
  of restrictions on individuals in each country - mistrust is a 
  problem across countries - hard to attract gov
<agropper> ... next step is to ask "what kind of content?" - 
  majority says short or medium length video or blog post - 700 
  words or 5-15 minute video
<manu> I think it would be super helpful if we could get these 
  written up as action items for the CCG...
Manu Sporny:  Can you say more about this, maybe put yourself on 
  the queue?
<agropper> ... now to thank Mike Prorock for the word clouds - we 
  see specific tech - VC is most - then DID - Government popular -
<mprorock> tech note - word clouds generated by frequency 
  analysis of responses after stop words and and duplicates removed
<agropper> ... discuss is VC, DID, wallet, - also JSON-LD and API 
  very popular - also popular use case id VC in Education and next 
  VC-HTTP API mentioned in half the answers
<agropper> ... asked about general public and answers all over 
  the place - probably 2 reasons: nothing harming and nothing 
  benefits the general public - so why would the public care? -
<agropper> ... do we need the general public to know and what 
  would that mean to our work?
Heather Vescent:  TY Victor [scribe assist by Adrian Gropper]
Manu Sporny:  Appreciate Victor for doing this work - we have a 
  data from a decent chunk of the community - aligns with Manu's 
  gut feeling - TY Victor - wonder if we could get this out as a 
  mailing - sending the general findings as slides and then maybe 
  translate this into Action Items [scribe assist by Adrian 
  Gropper]
<agropper> ... use it as an opportunity to remind the community
Adrian Gropper: Victor: Among people who answered many are 
  willing to produce content once we decide what should be in the 
  content
Charles E. Lehner:  Question about Slide 3 (membership years) - 
  why the distribution [scribe assist by Adrian Gropper]
Adrian Gropper: Victor: It's about the launch 2-3 years ago - 
  probably
Heather Vescent:  Interesting how large group joined in the last 
  year - may COVID - have been growing a lot - The year before had 
  only one but can't say much - What was going on 2-3 years ago 
  that added members - was it DID WG? [scribe assist by Adrian 
  Gropper]
<victor> last year bump might be due to the online education huge 
  demand and therefore necessity to work on VCs for educaiton
<agropper> .... of the people who took the survey, we had many 
  4-5 years. That bodes well to have both old and newer. It's a 
  challenge to walk new people to become contributors - that's what 
  101 group is trying to do - understand how to contribute to the 
  work items
<agropper> ... the numbers show that we do have many new folks - 
  need to provide a gentle path to becoming good contributors
Adrian Gropper: Victor: I am not a developer. Background in 
  education. One of the hardest things is to give newcomers very 
  simple tasks. Responses speak to the need to attract new 
  developers with not a lot of experience - if we can manage then 
  it might help speed up the process - government has the power
Heather Vescent:  Asking work item owners and co-owners: What can 
  you do to make your work item accessible to new (to the 
  community) devs. - Are there tasks you can break down - give a 
  soft landing or sandbox. [scribe assist by Adrian Gropper]
Mike Schwartz:  Traceability vocal with Orie - read me mirrors 
  what devs expect - when we look at SSI or CCG items have their 
  own language - need step by step - the Hallway Test: - what does 
  this look like to you? - Vocab is a start [scribe assist by 
  Adrian Gropper]
Heather Vescent:  Victor last words? Victor: Let's get Action 
  Items for what's next - talk about it in 101 and present to the 
  greater community - [scribe assist by Adrian Gropper]
Heather Vescent:  Discuss on list as well. [scribe assist by 
  Adrian Gropper]

Topic: Open Co-chair

Heather Vescent:  Thank you Mike for self-nominating - Officially 
  a 3-year term - once we get this filled we will discuss the terms 
  - this is an official submission- EOD midnight this FRIDAY to 
  finalize if nobody else shows up. [scribe assist by Adrian 
  Gropper]
Mike Schwartz:  Thanks Heather. Background: Tech career. 
  Security. Dealing with Data - search - and recently ML and 
  applied. - Run measure.io analytics - the data we deal with is 
  track and trace (eg DNA) needs chain of custody [scribe assist by 
  Adrian Gropper]
<agropper> ... Intro by Orie - doing more with VC in my day job - 
  given we need CCG to deal with important topics
Manu Sporny:  +1 To Mike! - contributions to date have been 
  fantastic - wondering if you have any particular initiative you 
  want to push in CCG? [scribe assist by Adrian Gropper]
Manu Sporny: +1 To getting better at verifiable testability in 
  CCG -- proving interop.
Mike Schwartz:  Interested in traceability of physical goods and 
  attribution on things that will impact environment - beyond that, 
  interoperability and testability - want to extend that spect to 
  the rprojects - also engaging in 101 to make sure they are 
  actually are doing [scribe assist by Adrian Gropper]
Manu Sporny: +1 To more effort into CCG 101 work -- it's the only 
  way we're going to scale as a community.
Heather Vescent:  Othe comments for Mike or CCG items to consider 
  [scribe assist by Adrian Gropper]
Mike Prorock: +1 Automation where possible
Manu Sporny:  Request I have in general is the community has 
  grown and my hope is we can figure out how to reduce the chairs 
  workload - more automation - minutes transcription - [scribe 
  assist by Adrian Gropper]
Manu Sporny: +1 To focus on stability -- that's good direction.
Heather Vescent:  Commenting - I think a lot of automation thanks 
  to Manu and Kim - as chair, automation is a double-edge sword - 
  70% time often an error happens - constant updates break things - 
  prefer more stable with less features - balance [scribe assist by 
  Adrian Gropper]
<agropper> ... still have issues with the minutes - need the 
  process documented - for the chairs and everyone - caution 
  against too much automation
Manu Sporny:  +1 To focus on stability as a general rule [scribe 
  assist by Adrian Gropper]
<mprorock> woot, on time!
Adrian Gropper: TY: Victor and Mike - concluding today
<victor> buy
