[2021-06-29T15:59:11.542Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-06-29T15:59:11.543Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-06-29T15:59:23.370Z]	<Victor>	present+
[2021-06-29T15:59:37.116Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner_[cel]>	present+
[2021-06-29T15:59:37.850Z]	<Victor>	let's bring some noise))
[2021-06-29T15:59:45.581Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-06-29T15:59:47.356Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:00:05.066Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:00:39.152Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:01:21.559Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:01:34.900Z]	<Kristina_Moss_Gudrun_Gunnarsdottir_(OET)>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:02:32.506Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:02:40.292Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:02:51.393Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:03:01.661Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:03:12.987Z]	<Blaz_Podgorelec>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:03:39.450Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:03:58.848Z]	<Mahmoud>	qq for later do we need to present+ after manu changed the bot?
[2021-06-29T16:04:00.342Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jun/0275.html
[2021-06-29T16:04:13.530Z]	<mprorock>	mahmoud - you should not have to anymore
[2021-06-29T16:04:15.969Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Mahmoud, you no longer need to present+ -- the bot does it for you.
[2021-06-29T16:04:23.367Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Long live our robot overlords!
[2021-06-29T16:04:26.354Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:04:30.348Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Join the CCG: https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-06-29T16:04:57.892Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Minutes: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-06-29T16:05:00.309Z]	<JeffO-StL>	Thx for FYI re: presemt+ Manu...
[2021-06-29T16:05:06.299Z]	<blazp>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:05:25.985Z]	<Mahmoud>	awesome thanks!
[2021-06-29T16:06:23.886Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Scribe: Adrian_Gropper
[2021-06-29T16:06:37.795Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:06:43.018Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:06:44.566Z]	<mprorock>	and we have lost heather
[2021-06-29T16:07:31.327Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	No volunteers
[2021-06-29T16:08:04.819Z]	<FNcc57821d532dc70d98c56002e89d6954>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:08:24.811Z]	<kezike>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:08:32.520Z]	<blazp>	q+
[2021-06-29T16:08:40.166Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:08:45.784Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack blazp
[2021-06-29T16:09:31.032Z]	<agropper>	Topic: Introductions
[2021-06-29T16:09:31.023Z]	<agropper>	blaze: researcher at Graz Iunst Tech, - looking at possibilities for digital wallet
[2021-06-29T16:09:43.467Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:10:14.075Z]	<agropper>	Kristina: Office of Ed tech US Dep't Edu - digital wallets and blockchains in education
[2021-06-29T16:11:21.901Z]	<agropper>	Erica: Theater and film artist, learning about W3C - producing a podcast about DID and DID methods -
[2021-06-29T16:11:53.959Z]	<agropper>	Heather: Please return and share podcast
[2021-06-29T16:12:00.902Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Announcements: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2021-06-29T16:12:15.459Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:12:21.145Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-06-29T16:12:21.123Z]	<manu> Topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2021-06-29T16:12:23.799Z]	<agropper>	... nothing on the announcements list - add to queue please
[2021-06-29T16:12:27.402Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack manu
[2021-06-29T16:13:01.326Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q+
[2021-06-29T16:13:21.510Z]	<agropper>	manu: Update on DID spec now in second CR - looks like we have enough implementations - call at 6PM to review - 2 weeks left and looking good - hoping to have it in a couple of months
[2021-06-29T16:13:22.308Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Phil_L
[2021-06-29T16:13:23.767Z]	<David_Lehn>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:13:29.189Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:14:14.687Z]	<agropper>	Phil: T3 innovation ratified the charter for Learning and Employment Record - announcement of kickoff in July to be announced
[2021-06-29T16:14:36.372Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Topic: Update on Action Items
[2021-06-29T16:14:36.323Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22

[2021-06-29T16:14:49.429Z]	<agropper>	Heather: Topic Action Items Update
[2021-06-29T16:15:00.493Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	194: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/194
[2021-06-29T16:15:00.746Z]	<agropper>	... check in on #194
[2021-06-29T16:15:41.171Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:15:45.953Z]	<agropper>	... EIP signature - just a meter of setting up the repo and we can get started with the work item
[2021-06-29T16:16:10.588Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	The Learning and Employment Record Network (LERN) is part of the T3 Innovation Network of Networks initiative.  https://www.t3networkhub.org/
[2021-06-29T16:16:39.210Z]	<agropper>	Topic: CCG 101 Survey Results
[2021-06-29T16:16:39.223Z]	<agropper>	Hear from Victor - active in CCG 101 from the start to help us understand how to use volunteer resources most effectively
[2021-06-29T16:16:50.091Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:16:51.501Z]	<agropper>	... 20-25 minutes timebox
[2021-06-29T16:18:07.604Z]	<agropper>	Victor: Started in CCG 101 - am active in TOIP and governance - trying to understand who is active and what they think is important
[2021-06-29T16:18:48.694Z]	<agropper>	... by sending Google Forms important to send email directly - 10% of members responded
[2021-06-29T16:19:24.670Z]	<agropper>	... created a small presentation
[2021-06-29T16:20:00.922Z]	<mprorock>	FYI - if you have chat open and screen share is not showing full screen properly, close and then reopen chat
[2021-06-29T16:20:24.970Z]	<Mahmoud>	not sure if me but theres tons of chopping
[2021-06-29T16:20:30.950Z]	<agropper>	... to find out who we are and how we can move the projects forward - majority joined in last three years -
[2021-06-29T16:20:39.864Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	(Yes, the audio is a bit choppy for me too, but I can hear it)
[2021-06-29T16:20:59.515Z]	<mprorock>	mahmoud - not just you - jitsi bandwidth can be rough
[2021-06-29T16:21:10.285Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	(I just muted Adrian, so there is only audio coming off one channel)
[2021-06-29T16:21:45.228Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	(audio has improved for me)
[2021-06-29T16:21:48.565Z]	<agropper>	... creating standards or developing content for promotion - the other important thin is that the majority is tech pros and many in executive positions - important because development can be divvied into what to develop vs. legwork / coding
[2021-06-29T16:23:08.512Z]	<agropper>	... the majority seem to be executives that decide what to develop - it's much more important to find people to do the development - "I think"
[2021-06-29T16:23:12.609Z]	<manu>	This is really great data...
[2021-06-29T16:23:41.115Z]	<mprorock>	manu +1 really insightful on what is actually going on from an active user standpoint
[2021-06-29T16:24:11.443Z]	<Wayne>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:24:16.672Z]	<agropper>	... half of the people have a good idea of what they want to do development - not sure if that's a good conclusion - want feedback
[2021-06-29T16:25:48.642Z]	<agropper>	... see there's a need in active participation of gov officials - it's challenging to attract gov due to the specifics of restrictions on individuals in each country - mistrust is a problem across countries - hard to attract gov
[2021-06-29T16:26:42.169Z]	<agropper>	... next step is to ask "what kind of content?" - majority says short or medium length video or blog post - 700 words or 5-15 minute video
[2021-06-29T16:26:44.877Z]	<manu>	I think it would be super helpful if we could get these written up as action items for the CCG...
[2021-06-29T16:27:32.579Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	manu: can you say more about this, maybe put yourself on the queue?
[2021-06-29T16:27:38.251Z]	<agropper>	... now to thank Mike Prorock for the word clouds - we see specific tech - VC is most - then DID - Government popular -
[2021-06-29T16:27:43.542Z]	<mprorock>	tech note - word clouds generated by frequency analysis of responses after stop words and and duplicates removed
[2021-06-29T16:28:26.072Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:28:41.074Z]	<manu>	q+ to praise the work done here, wonder what next steps are -- mail to mailing list.
[2021-06-29T16:29:05.922Z]	<agropper>	... discuss is VC, DID, wallet, - also JSON-LD and API very popular - also popular use case id VC in Education and next VC-HTTP API mentioned in half the answers
[2021-06-29T16:30:03.856Z]	<agropper>	... asked about general public and answers all over the place - probably 2 reasons: nothing harming and nothing benefits the general public - so why would the public care? -
[2021-06-29T16:30:24.459Z]	<agropper>	... do we need the general public to know and what would that mean to our work?
[2021-06-29T16:30:28.238Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:30:34.371Z]	<agropper>	Heather: TY Victor
[2021-06-29T16:30:37.455Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack manu
[2021-06-29T16:32:17.288Z]	<agropper>	manu: appreciate Victor for doing this work - we have a data from a decent chunk of the community - aligns with Manu's gut feeling - TY Victor - wonder if we could get this out as a mailing - sending the general findings as slides and then maybe translate this into Action Items
[2021-06-29T16:32:20.168Z]	<Victor>	q+
[2021-06-29T16:32:34.707Z]	<cel>	q+ about membership durations
[2021-06-29T16:32:35.439Z]	<agropper>	... use it as an opportunity to remind the community
[2021-06-29T16:32:40.791Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:33:18.362Z]	<agropper>	Victor: Among people who answered many are willing to produce content once we decide what should be in the content
[2021-06-29T16:33:40.385Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Victor
[2021-06-29T16:33:42.543Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack cel
[2021-06-29T16:34:03.267Z]	<agropper>	Cel: Question about Slide 3 (membership years) - why the distribution
[2021-06-29T16:34:05.794Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-06-29T16:34:31.007Z]	<agropper>	Victor: It's about the launch 2-3 years ago - probably
[2021-06-29T16:36:08.756Z]	<agropper>	Heather: Interesting how large group joined in the last year - may COVID - have been growing a lot - The year before had only one but can't say much - What was going on 2-3 years ago that added members - was it DID WG?
[2021-06-29T16:37:09.466Z]	<Victor>	last year bump might be due to the online education huge demand and therefore necessity to work on VCs for educaiton
[2021-06-29T16:37:44.220Z]	<agropper>	.... of the people who took the survey, we had many 4-5 years. That bodes well to have both old and newer. It's a challenge to walk new people to become contributors - that's what 101 group is trying to do - understand how to contribute to the work items
[2021-06-29T16:38:14.552Z]	<agropper>	... the numbers show that we do have many new folks - need to provide a gentle path to becoming good contributors
[2021-06-29T16:38:14.833Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:38:18.863Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Heather_V
[2021-06-29T16:38:37.739Z]	<Victor>	q+
[2021-06-29T16:38:44.071Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Victor
[2021-06-29T16:40:02.198Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-06-29T16:40:22.741Z]	<agropper>	Victor: I am not a developer. Background in education. One of the hardest things is to give newcomers very simple tasks. Responses speak to the need to attract new developers with not a lot of experience - if we can manage then it might help speed up the process - government has the power
[2021-06-29T16:40:55.967Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-06-29T16:41:41.490Z]	<agropper>	Heather: Asking work item owners and co-owners: What can you do to make your work item accessible to new (to the community) devs. - Are there tasks you can break down - give a soft landing or sandbox.
[2021-06-29T16:41:44.380Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Heather_V
[2021-06-29T16:41:47.119Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack mprorock
[2021-06-29T16:42:19.682Z]	<Victor>	+1 to Mike's point
[2021-06-29T16:42:24.392Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:42:33.680Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	+1 to meet people where they are at!
[2021-06-29T16:43:22.083Z]	<agropper>	Mike: Traceability vocal with Orie - read me mirrors what devs expect - when we look at SSI or CCG items have their own language - need step by step - the Hallway Test: - what does this look like to you? - Vocab is a start
[2021-06-29T16:43:27.780Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:44:25.872Z]	<agropper>	Heather: Victor last words? Victor: Let's get Action Items for what's next - talk about it in 101 and present to the greater community -
[2021-06-29T16:44:36.142Z]	<agropper>	Heather: Discuss on list as well.
[2021-06-29T16:44:46.389Z]	<agropper>	Topic: Open Co-chair
[2021-06-29T16:46:23.792Z]	<agropper>	Heather: Thank you Mike for self-nominating - Officially a 3-year term - once we get this filled we will discuss the terms - this is an official submission- EOD midnight this FRIDAY to finalize if nobody else shows up.
[2021-06-29T16:46:26.698Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:48:08.059Z]	<agropper>	Mike: Thanks Heather. Background: Tech career. Security. Dealing with Data - search - and recently ML and applied. - Run measure.io analytics - the data we deal with is track and trace (eg DNA) needs chain of custody
[2021-06-29T16:48:57.421Z]	<manu>	q+ question to Mike -- any particular initiatives you're wanting to push forward in CCG?
[2021-06-29T16:49:02.091Z]	<agropper>	... Intro by Orie - doing more with VC in my day job - given we need CCG to deal with important topics
[2021-06-29T16:49:11.878Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack manu
[2021-06-29T16:49:53.585Z]	<agropper>	Manu: +1 to Mike! - contributions to date have been fantastic - wondering if you have any particular initiative you want to push in CCG?
[2021-06-29T16:51:01.346Z]	<Victor>	present+
[2021-06-29T16:51:03.025Z]	<manu>	+1 to getting better at verifiable testability in CCG -- proving interop.
[2021-06-29T16:51:17.384Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:51:43.221Z]	<agropper>	Mike: Interested in traceability of physical goods and attribution on things that will impact environment - beyond that, interoperability and testability - want to extend that spect to the rprojects - also engaging in 101 to make sure they are actually are doing
[2021-06-29T16:51:46.209Z]	<manu>	+1 to more effort into CCG 101 work -- it's the only way we're going to scale as a community.
[2021-06-29T16:51:56.053Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:52:41.706Z]	<agropper>	Heather: Othe comments for Mike or CCG items to consider
[2021-06-29T16:52:59.079Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-06-29T16:53:06.837Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack manu
[2021-06-29T16:53:45.034Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-06-29T16:54:03.130Z]	<mprorock>	+1 automation where possible
[2021-06-29T16:54:16.287Z]	<agropper>	Manu: Request I have in general is the community has grown and my hope is we can figure out how to reduce the chairs workload - more automation - minutes transcription -
[2021-06-29T16:54:29.822Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Heather_V
[2021-06-29T16:55:50.462Z]	<manu>	+1 to focus on stability -- that's good direction.
[2021-06-29T16:56:06.249Z]	<agropper>	Heather: Commenting - I think a lot of automation thanks to Manu and Kim - as chair, automation is a double-edge sword - 70% time often an error happens - constant updates break things - prefer more stable with less features - balance
[2021-06-29T16:57:24.832Z]	<agropper>	... still have issues with the minutes - need the process documented - for the chairs and everyone - caution against too much automation
[2021-06-29T16:57:26.412Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-06-29T16:57:48.102Z]	<agropper>	Manu: +1 to focus on stability as a general rule
[2021-06-29T16:58:20.613Z]	<mprorock>	woot, on time!
[2021-06-29T16:58:21.421Z]	<agropper>	TY: Victor and Mike - concluding today
[2021-06-29T16:58:33.881Z]	<Victor>	buy
