[2021-09-27T14:58:29.208Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Sep/0122.html
[2021-09-27T14:58:29.209Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:00:10.550Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:00:58.948Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:01:11.567Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:01:59.439Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	chair: Kerri_Lemoie
[2021-09-27T15:02:15.170Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:03:50.222Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:04:35.627Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:04:35.629Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: Agenda Review
[2021-09-27T15:04:35.629Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: IP Note
[2021-09-27T15:05:03.973Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	- https://www.w3.org/accounts/request
[2021-09-27T15:05:10.980Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	- https://www.w3.org/community/about/process/cla/
[2021-09-27T15:05:19.425Z]	<Steve_Gance>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:05:34.872Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-09-27T15:05:55.412Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-09-27T15:06:00.871Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-09-27T15:06:13.236Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+ here's my topic
[2021-09-27T15:06:17.057Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-09-27T15:06:31.949Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:07:16.323Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:04:35.629Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: Scribe Selection
[2021-09-27T15:07:33.891Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	scribe: Steve_Gance:
[2021-09-27T15:07:47.512Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:08:22.959Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:08:22.960Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-09-27T15:08:22.962Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2021-09-27T15:08:23.111Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/
[2021-09-27T15:08:40.462Z]	<Steve_Gance>	CCG calls Tuesdays at noon Eastern
[2021-09-27T15:08:42.746Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2021-09-27T15:08:54.376Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-09-27T15:09:12.128Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Phil: LER mtg today at 3:30 Eastern, all invited
[2021-09-27T15:09:12.129Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: VC-EDU Mailing List
[2021-09-27T15:09:34.203Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Now have a VC-EDU mailing list
[2021-09-27T15:10:38.718Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/
[2021-09-27T15:10:43.302Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Main VC list is very technical, but education has conversations related to education and conversations don't have to be as technical. Technical issues should got to CCG mailing list. Idea is to inform and engage as many as possible.
[2021-09-27T15:10:55.662Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/
[2021-09-27T15:11:06.424Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerri posted VC-edu mailing list link.
[2021-09-27T15:11:27.135Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerri also posted the main CCG (more technical) mailing list
[2021-09-27T15:11:36.837Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:11:55.934Z]	<Adam_Lemmon_(C.T)>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:11:55.935Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	topic: Charter & Work Items Scope Discussion
[2021-09-27T15:12:36.391Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Work ongoing to revise charter. Kerri made some revisions, at the link posted.
[2021-09-27T15:12:42.296Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fAdC1mBSP-p6zxXGRQNfSQNPe5MY6UZ6Tf676oY7BOk/edit#heading=h.iem8mwq6o4rn
[2021-09-27T15:13:18.320Z]	<Steve_Gance>	at second link is updated charter
[2021-09-27T15:13:53.917Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Comment this week, comments will be discussed next week.
[2021-09-27T15:14:05.462Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:14:24.427Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Today won't go into detail, but to touch on some sections.
[2021-09-27T15:15:26.445Z]	<Steve_Gance>	First, note history of LER Wrapper. Demonstration of how you can wrap VC in an LER wrapper. Technical challenges turned out to be great.
[2021-09-27T15:16:00.702Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Not just content inside an envelope but also verification within the envelope. That was challenging.
[2021-09-27T15:16:40.908Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Scope hasn't changed. While LER wrapper was one idea, other ideas can be explored.
[2021-09-27T15:17:21.903Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Number 4 in scope was added, is also addressed by VC-edu mailing list.
[2021-09-27T15:17:25.537Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:17:38.092Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Please comment on scope so these can be discussed.
[2021-09-27T15:18:44.125Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:18:56.735Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2021-09-27T15:19:22.616Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Deb Everhart: Question about scope: Education credentials, but it also says occupational credentials. Important to include ed and training everywhere, including on the job, or recognize the collaboration of colleges with employers.
[2021-09-27T15:19:50.063Z]	<Steve_Gance>	"occupational" was meant to include any kind of credential.
[2021-09-27T15:20:37.420Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Deb: Important to draw a line between occupation and education/training, or other documented learning experiences should be in the scope of this work.
[2021-09-27T15:21:35.485Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Deb: Scope could be made more explicit about HR, workforce development, etc., not just colleges and universities.
[2021-09-27T15:21:38.413Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-09-27T15:21:45.152Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:22:01.782Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:22:35.473Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:23:33.553Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Phil: Good scope observation. Concern of proliferation of groups talking about this. It is worth remembering that this group is part of the VC standards work. Thus should include some who are more technical. In other groups, there might be people concerned with adoption, for example, and not so much with the standards.
[2021-09-27T15:24:02.132Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:24:10.224Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-09-27T15:24:34.585Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Phil: So there will be other groups talking about this, there will be lines between these discussions, but keep focused on the strengths of this group.
[2021-09-27T15:25:27.508Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:25:46.055Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerrie: The external groups section was updated in order to note the other organizations that we ought to have communication with.
[2021-09-27T15:26:26.483Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:26:37.997Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerrie: Use case focus is important. Everything we do should be covered by a use case. We may be writing use cases that are theoretical but important to have these in the list.
[2021-09-27T15:28:05.686Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerrie: We want others to look to this group for VCed standards. We want a VCed context file whereas others can have their own standards files.
[2021-09-27T15:28:38.165Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	For example - there will be two workgroups in the LERN community, one addressing Adoption and Barriers to it for VCs,  and another associated with presentation scenarios.  We (LERN) will have specific projects with project plans & deliverables in a reasonably short time frame (3-5 months). The latter WG is about how Holders leverage self-issued credentials & possible approaches by which these can be verifiably endorsed.
[2021-09-27T15:28:39.862Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:29:48.720Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerrie: We have a lot of properties out there that are useful. Look at the approaches to interoperability for detail on how VCed is meant to be positioned.
[2021-09-27T15:30:46.888Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	LERN Meeting Sept. 27th, 2021, 3:30 pm - 4:30 pm, at https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZMvf-Gqpj8oG9fNqc551WGQ-x4qd1RY8kN7
[2021-09-27T15:31:42.681Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerrie: Section on Work Items Process was put in to emphasize that chairs can't do all of the work. There should be different sub-groups working on issues. There could be other orgs that want to work on issues related.  The sub-group must have at least two working on every sub issue.
[2021-09-27T15:32:07.365Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:32:29.889Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerrie: Opportunity for other orgs to take the lead on this work.
[2021-09-27T15:32:54.040Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerrie: I added all the other educational standards groups that I could think of.
[2021-09-27T15:33:19.313Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerrie: Deliverables are pretty generic.
[2021-09-27T15:33:41.842Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:33:54.906Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerrie: Some work needs to be done on the work plans.
[2021-09-27T15:33:59.753Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Whoohoo!
[2021-09-27T15:34:02.423Z]	<John_Kuo>	:+1:
[2021-09-27T15:34:05.405Z]	<Timothy_Summers>	:+1:
[2021-09-27T15:34:13.759Z]	<Deb_Everhart>	happy but feeling a little overwhelmed
[2021-09-27T15:34:43.310Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerrie: Please spend some time reading this and add comments. Email me if you want to talk about it.
[2021-09-27T15:35:15.193Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/19XGQOP_xhpDwabgKsijOva9nCpCB2z82B71GY5Gn5CQ/edit#
[2021-09-27T15:35:21.698Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerri: We have two work items. Link in chat.
[2021-09-27T15:36:29.713Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerri: Link at top to CCG work items. We have a ways to go to fill this out. I'm sure many have use cases that are not in the document or the repo yet.
[2021-09-27T15:37:26.713Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:37:27.810Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerri: Look at the guidelines for use cases. We have a form to submit use cases.
[2021-09-27T15:38:22.587Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerri: Second work item is the "modeling educational verifiable credentials" section of the Work items draft.
[2021-09-27T15:38:30.509Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:38:40.336Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	The HR Open community is adhering to the VC Data Model for it's work in the Resume Group, as well.
[2021-09-27T15:39:07.257Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerri: Open to discussion, anything missing? Ideally I'd like to see this model doc completed by end of year.
[2021-09-27T15:39:17.119Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:41:51.713Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Phil: HR Open is trying to look at credentials in structured way that represent employer/employee relationship. JDX was handed over to HR Open and has become the job description template (JSON data model as well).  Andrew Consolo, resume workgroup (or recruitment workgroup), looks at what job candidates should be submitted to job portals as JSON structured documents. Whether to include in the same VC free text narrative, or whether that would be separate in the context of a presentation.
[2021-09-27T15:42:06.719Z]	<Phil_Barker>	(as I understand it) HR Open Recruitment is the workgroup, resume/CV is the current task they are working on.
[2021-09-27T15:42:46.476Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Phil: Most recently, how might endorsement for on-the-job learning work? There is workgroup looking at this.
[2021-09-27T15:42:57.263Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:43:05.891Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Phil: Phil Barker sits on that group as well.
[2021-09-27T15:43:24.413Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Phil Barker: Name of the workgroup is HR Open Recruitment.
[2021-09-27T15:43:36.519Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:43:46.509Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Thanks for the clarification
[2021-09-27T15:44:09.786Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Deb: A question of who is the "they." Having Phil and Phil on these different workgroups is valuable.
[2021-09-27T15:44:27.696Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-27T15:45:01.596Z]	<Steve_Gance>	Kerri: Please sign up for the mailing list.
[2021-09-27T15:45:06.388Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
