[2021-09-20T14:59:13.301Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> date: 2021-09-21
[2021-09-20T14:59:13.301Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie>	agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Sep/0105.html
[2021-09-20T14:59:13.302Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie>	chair: Kerri_Lemoie, AnthonyFCamilleri
[2021-09-20T14:59:13.321Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-09-20T14:59:19.483Z]	<AnthonyFCamilleri>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:00:09.664Z]	<John_Kuo>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:00:18.336Z]	<Wesley>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:00:26.249Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:00:32.800Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:00:45.953Z]	<Sharon_Leu>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:01:15.805Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:01:19.218Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:01:44.846Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:01:53.326Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:02:56.087Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:03:07.100Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Agenda Review
[2021-09-20T15:03:07.101Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: IP Note
[2021-09-20T15:03:07.108Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
[2021-09-20T15:03:21.407Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:03:28.471Z]	<Steve_Traugott>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:03:29.544Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-09-20T15:03:07.546Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Call Notes
[2021-09-20T15:03:53.972Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-09-20T15:03:57.585Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-09-20T15:03:07.546Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Scribe Selection
[2021-09-20T15:03:07.547Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	I will
[2021-09-20T15:04:50.273Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	scribe: JimGoodell
[2021-09-20T15:05:05.266Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/announcements/
[2021-09-20T15:05:09.040Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2021-09-20T15:05:09.041Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Announcements & Reminders
[2021-09-20T15:05:21.379Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Tomorrow regular CCG call resumes
[2021-09-20T15:05:31.996Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-09-20T15:05:59.822Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Announcement from Phil: On 27th meeting of LER Network 3:30 pm ET
[2021-09-20T15:06:33.927Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:06:39.151Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	John joined - from pocket initiative
[2021-09-20T15:07:51.996Z]	<Simone>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:07:51.997Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-09-20T15:08:09.615Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Heather V. co-chair from CCG reintroduced. CCG is one of the largest community groups in the W3C
[2021-09-20T15:10:12.794Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:10:36.178Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Heather - Has consultancy ...making tech understandable to non-technologists, published book(s?)... Also spearheaded outreach from CCG. Here today to answer questions bout process and how work of this task force fits with CCG.
[2021-09-20T15:10:59.337Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1299DRGwRuq1fyd_AV5eOzxxEU-iDnQk1iq6MeUVGjRA/edit#slide=id.p
[2021-09-20T15:11:19.917Z]	<Wesley>	Very helpful, thank you Heather and Kerri!
[2021-09-20T15:11:19.918Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Charter & Scope Discussion
[2021-09-20T15:11:22.279Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Kerri: Good time to review charter and work of this group...sharing slides.
[2021-09-20T15:12:02.632Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Does everyone have access to the google slides via the link?
[2021-09-20T15:12:54.237Z]	<Steve_Gance>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:13:12.911Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	works
[2021-09-20T15:13:19.987Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:15:21.192Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	VC-EDU anchored in Digital Credentials Consortium (DCC)
[2021-09-20T15:16:59.130Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	LER Wrapper informed progress and then current focus on single achievements and considering what next...
[2021-09-20T15:18:07.575Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Task force produces work items / reports. This task force can end at any time. There may be a final report for the CCG.
[2021-09-20T15:18:17.703Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Work Item Process: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/workitem-process/
[2021-09-20T15:20:23.176Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Heather: 2 kinds of work items and two kinds of deliverables. Ongoing community draft is a deliverable that is never finished vs. Community Report which most likely has a final draft.
[2021-09-20T15:21:06.488Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Nice description Heather
[2021-09-20T15:21:58.159Z]	<Wesley>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:21:58.371Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-09-20T15:22:26.032Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: Heather_Vescent
[2021-09-20T15:22:28.128Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:23:44.732Z]	<AnthonyFCamilleri>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:24:07.869Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Kerri: Modeling Ed. Verifiable Credentials - may be a finalized draft vs. use cases may be ongoing.
[2021-09-20T15:25:00.927Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:25:10.105Z]	<Wesley>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:25:18.540Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Heather: It can be a double edge sword. The charter can be reworked to change what category and deliverables, there is flexibility
[2021-09-20T15:25:34.627Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:25:43.277Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	It's precisely these periodic discussions that helps the community understand it's a living, active conversation, and so the documentation of it needs this apace and characterization.
[2021-09-20T15:29:21.730Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:29:42.766Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2021-09-20T15:29:54.935Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: Marty_Reed
[2021-09-20T15:30:00.781Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Kerri: Proposes revising charter to 1) specify that we meet on Jitsi, 2) about recording and that meeting minutes distributed to the CCG mailing list. (Reviewed key points from current charter)
[2021-09-20T15:30:22.847Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Marty: Raise question about definition of "consensus"
[2021-09-20T15:30:35.819Z]	<AnthonyFCamilleri>	According to ISO/IEC Guide 2:2004 Standardization and related activities â€“ General vocabulary, consensus is â€œGeneral agreement, characterized by the absence of sustained opposition to substantial issues by any important part of the concerned interests and by a process that involves seeking to take into account the views of all parties concerned and to reconcile any conflicting arguments.Å¾
[2021-09-20T15:30:43.569Z]	<AnthonyFCamilleri>	q+
[2021-09-20T15:30:59.135Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: Anthony
[2021-09-20T15:31:52.704Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-09-20T15:32:07.690Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: Heather_Vescent
[2021-09-20T15:32:27.294Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	CCG Call: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0375.html
[2021-09-20T15:32:36.200Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	https://www.w3.org/2020/Process-20200915/#Consensus
[2021-09-20T15:33:00.436Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Heather will share a link with information from the CCG group and Anthony shared definition (will share link?) (one objection - may have consensus, small opposing group may not mean consensus)
[2021-09-20T15:34:20.844Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	See Anthony's definition from ISE/IEC above
[2021-09-20T15:36:08.230Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:37:12.300Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-09-20T15:37:22.854Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: Heather_Vescent
[2021-09-20T15:37:25.141Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:38:17.870Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:38:23.827Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Kerri ask for objections about using https://www.w3.org/2020/Process-20200915/#Consensus as a guide for this group. There were no objections.
[2021-09-20T15:39:12.103Z]	<Nate_Otto_(Badgr/CSky)>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:41:19.031Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Kerri: Suggests broadening scope per charter to 
- Support data modelling concerns, usage guidelines, and best practices. For use of VCs in education & workforce
- Increase adoption and understanding of self-sovereign identity 
- Promote re-use of linked data, contexts, and vocabularies
[2021-09-20T15:41:19.924Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:41:34.656Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	q+
[2021-09-20T15:41:50.438Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2021-09-20T15:42:01.514Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack:Jim_Goodell
[2021-09-20T15:43:14.897Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Difference is in the modeling doc, broader scope
[2021-09-20T15:46:07.246Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:46:21.106Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: Jim_Goodell
[2021-09-20T15:46:30.416Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-09-20T15:46:49.941Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Kerri: Work can start narrower and then broaden with new work items
[2021-09-20T15:47:58.746Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:48:08.073Z]	<AnthonyFCamilleri>	q+
[2021-09-20T15:48:45.338Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Phil: Some of the groups we are involved in are standards groups and some work is being done to explore innovation outside of standards groups, but then those innovations might go through a formal process within SDOs (paraphrased)
[2021-09-20T15:49:14.394Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: Anthony
[2021-09-20T15:49:39.471Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Kerri: We can recognize other work being done in other groups and note alignment
[2021-09-20T15:50:22.313Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-09-20T15:50:45.009Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Anthony: Some of the work done here is not education-specific. Is there any way for our group to make recommendations to the overall CGG standards rather than keep at the VC-EDU level?
[2021-09-20T15:51:25.964Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+ re: presentation scenarios
[2021-09-20T15:51:31.006Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Heather: Yes.
[2021-09-20T15:51:36.017Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Heather_Vescent
[2021-09-20T15:51:38.701Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:52:36.787Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:53:01.020Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: Phil_L_(P1)
[2021-09-20T15:53:29.526Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Kerri brought up example of Verifiable Presentations based on aggregate credentials representing more granular achievements as VPs
[2021-09-20T15:53:38.943Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Verifiable Presentation Request Specification Work Item:
 https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vp-request-spec
[2021-09-20T15:54:49.390Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:54:55.232Z]	<Wesley>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:55:00.024Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	This was a use case that did not have enough owners so it not active: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/179
[2021-09-20T15:55:51.962Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:56:12.145Z]	<AnthonyFCamilleri>	q-
[2021-09-20T15:56:16.120Z]	<AnthonyFCamilleri>	one use case I will add for sure: Accreditation/Trusted Issuers. If I remember properly from other calls, I'm not the only one for that?
[2021-09-20T15:56:18.971Z]	<Wesley>	present+
[2021-09-20T15:56:41.658Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-09-20T15:56:54.749Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: kerri_lemoie
[2021-09-20T15:57:06.351Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Kerri: Community Report Draft should focus on Focus on native alignment to the VC Data Model 
Include examples for: 
single achievement by one issuer, 
array of achievements by one issuer to the same credentialSubject
presentations for these models
...to get out to those who need guidance now/soon
[2021-09-20T15:57:52.345Z]	<Nate_Otto_(Badgr/CSky)>	Does a task force of a community group have the authority to use the word "standard"?
[2021-09-20T15:58:30.993Z]	<John_Kuo>	Thank you Kerri I have to drop but this is excellent work
[2021-09-20T15:58:37.295Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T15:59:36.270Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	Kerri: Charter has clause about 'minimum disruption' that she suggests should probably come out because we are  disruptive space
[2021-09-20T15:59:54.734Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q+
[2021-09-20T15:59:58.933Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	klemoie@concentricsky.com
[2021-09-20T16:00:02.978Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-09-20T16:00:11.181Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: Heather_Vescent
[2021-09-20T16:00:27.635Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Nice Job JIm on the notetaking!
[2021-09-20T16:00:39.505Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	My pleasure!
[2021-09-20T16:00:41.460Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Bye
[2021-09-20T16:00:43.079Z]	<Simone>	Thank you Kerri !
[2021-09-20T16:00:44.887Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Great job Kerri!
[2021-09-20T16:00:51.459Z]	<Matthias_Gottlieb>	Thx, bb
[2021-09-20T16:01:14.337Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Thanks all!
